'616'	'The value of a histamine H2-receptor antagonist in the management of patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.'	''	''	''	'Inhibition of acid secretion by an H2-receptor antagonist (metiamide) was assessed in three patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Metiamide (200 or 300 mg) inhibited acid secretion transiently (2 1/2 hours) by 85 to 100 per cent in all patients. Although anticholinergic drugs alone inhibited acid secretion by only 0 to 35 per cent in these patients, the combination of metiamide and anticholinergic markedly prolonged the inhibitory effect of metiamide. Total gastrectomy was refused by one patient, and was impossible in another; both were treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for five and 10 months. A third patient was treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for three weeks in preparation for total gastrectomy. Ulcer pain and diarrhea disappeared, and each gained weight. H2-receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of some patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.'
'653'	'[Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated medically by an inhibitor of H2 histamine receptors].'	''	''	''	'Metiamide an histamine H2-receptors antagonist has been used to treat a case of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome characterized by a long standing diarrhea, an important gastric hypersecretion and a moderatly elevated plasma gastrin but without digestive ulceration. At the dose of 600 mg per day, Metiamide induced a complete suppression of acid secretion, an effect which lasted for 15 days after stopping the drug. Accordingly and since the only finding at time of laparotomy was a small lymph node enlarged with endocrine metastatic tissue, the stomach was left intact and Metiamide pursued. During the first 4 months of chronic administration of Metiamide, acid secretion was maintained at levels below 25 p.cent of initial values. Ulteriorly however, although dosages of Metiamide were increased, acid hypersecretion resumed and a duodenal ulcer developed. Total gastrectomy was then performed 11 months after the beginning of Metiamide. In spite of the failure of Metiamide treatment, the long term follow up of this case of Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, allowed us to get theoretical and practical informations.'
'786'	'Bioluminescence assay of enzymes obtained from buccal epithelium by superficial scraping.'	''	''	''	'A method is presented for the simultaneous assay of buccal enzymes by measuring reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and adenosine triphosphate with the aid of the bioluminescence of luciferase extracts. The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) was shown earlier to be increased in homogeneous leukoplakias of the oral mucosa. Since smoking has been implicated as an etiologic factor of leukoplakia, G6PDH was measured in the normal buccal epithelium of cigarette smokers. No difference was found in the activity of G6PDH between smokers and nonsmokers when related to the activity of pyruvate kinase, which is known to be invariable in healthy and leukoplakic oral mucosa. A new compact kinetic luminescence analyzer is briefly described.'
'795'	"'Picture frame' fibres in a carrier of the trait for malignant hyperpyrexia."	''	''	''	"A member of a family which was known to be susceptible to malignant hyperpyrexia, who was identified as a carrier by the presence of an elevated serum creatine-phosphokinase, has been investigated further. Muscle was examined biochemically, and the study included the sarcoplasmic ATPase-activity, actinomycin, Mg2+ ATPase activity, ATP, phosphocreatine and glucose-6-phosphate. In addition, the calcium uptake by the sarcoplasmic reticulum was studied. The histochemical analysis of the muscle revealed the presence of a new fibre type characterised by a dense rim of ATPase activity, which gives the impression of a 'picture-frame'. Ultramicroscopic study revealed changes in the mitochondria and areas of myofibrillar disruption with swelling of the sarcoplasmic reticulum."
'948'	'A hepatoma-associated alkaline phosphatase, the Kasahara isozyme, compared with one of the isozymes of FL amnion cells.'	''	''	''	'It was found that a human hepatoma-associated ALP (orthophosphoric monoester phosphohydrolase, E.C. 3.1.3.1) shared electrophoretic mobility, inactivation by urea, inhibition by inorganic phosphate, ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and amino acids (L-phenylalanine, L-leucine and L-homoarginine), heat stability, sensitivity to neuraminidase, pH optimum, Km value, and antigen site with fast moving ALP isozymes of FL cell strain derived from human amniotic membrane. However, 40-week-old fresh amniotic membrane lacked this isozyme. Instead, it had a placental type ALP consisting of minor components. The other ALP isozyme of FL cells had properties common to hepatoma ALP with regard to L-phenylalanine sensitivity, inhibition by ethylenediaminetetraacetate, inactivation by urea, and antigen site, but differed from it in electrophoretic mobility, sensitivity to L-leucine and L-homoarginine, and the presence of another antigen site. It was more heat stable and more sensitive to inhibition by inorganic phosphate than Hepatoma AP. The possible regulatory mechanism between the hepatoma-type ALP and the placental type ALP in the amnion cells is considered.'
'1624'	'Stearoyl-CoA desaturase activity in mammary adenocarcinomas carried by C3H mice.'	''	''	''	'Transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and livers of C3H mice fed a stock diet or a linoleate rich diet (15% corn oil) contain similar amounts of oleate (ca 3 mg/gm tissue). On feeding either a high carbohydrate, fat free or a high carbohydrate, saturated fat-containing (15% hydrogenated coconut or cottonseed oil) diet for 6 weeks, oleate levels increased 2-fold in tumor and 5-fold in liver. The specific activity of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in liver microsomes was similar to that in the corresponding fractions of mammary glands of lactating mice. In liver, this activity was enhanced 2- to 3-fold by feeding a high carbohydrate, fat free or a high carbohydrate, saturated fat diet. The desaturase activity in mammary tumor microsomes, while only 10% of that in hepatic microsomes, remained unaltered regardless of the type of diet fed. These observations suggest that (a) a major portion of the oleate in the mammary tumor is not produced within the tissue, (b) dietary adaptation is not a general characteristic of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in neoplastic tissues, and (c) enhanced desaturase activity in liver is directly related to the absence of linoleate or oleate, or to a large decrease in oleate in the diet.'
'1750'	'Isolation and characterization of an unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant of cultured mammalian cells.'	''	''	''	'An unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant derived from Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells has been isolated and characterized. This mutant grows normally when oleate or other unsaturated fatty acids are supplemented in the growth medium. Unlike the wild-type CHO cells, growth stops when medium is deprived of unsaturated fatty acid. Whole cell pulse experiments with [14C]acetate or [14C]stearate indicate that the mutant is defective in unsaturated fatty acid synthesis. Enzyme assays in vitro show that the enzymatic defect of the mutant is localized to the microsomal stearoyl-CoA desaturase.'
'2015'	'Acid-base balance in amphibian gastric mucosa.'	''	''	''	'It has been established that H+ secretion can be maintained in frog stomach in the absence of exogenous CO2 by using a nutrient bathing fluid containing 25 mM H2PO4 (pH approximately equal to 4.5) or by lowering the pH of a nonbuffered nutrient solution to about 3.0-3.6. Exogenous CO2 in the presence of these nutrient solutions uniformly caused a marked decrease in H+ secretion, PD, adn short-circuit current (Isc) and an increase in transmucosal resistance (R). Elevation of nutrient [k+] to 83 mM reduced R significantly but transiently without change in H+ when nutrient pH less than 5.0, whereas R returned to base line and H+ increased when nutrient pH greater than 5.0. Acidification of the nutrient medium in the presence of exogenous CO2 results in inhibition of the secretory pump, probably by decreasing intracellular pH, and also interferes with conductance at the nutrient membrane. Removal of exogenous CO2 from standard bicarbonate nutrient solution reduced by 50% the H+, PD, and Isc without change in R; K+-free nutrient solutions reverse these changes in Isc and PD but not in H+. The dropping PD and rising R induced by K+-free nutrient solutions in 5% CO2 - 95% O2 are returned toward normal by 100% O2. Our findings support an important role for exogenous CO2 in maintaining normal acid-base balance in frog mucosa by acting as an acidifying agent.'
'2274'	'Circulating levels of prolactin in human breast cancer.'	''	''	''	'Serum prolactin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassays in 98 patients with established carcinoma of breast, 12 patients with cystic mastitis and 10 patients with gynaecomastia and compared with that of age matched normal control women. The serum prolactin levels in the patients with breast cancer, gynaecomastia or cystic mastitis were observed to be similar to that in normal women. It was interesting to note that the levels of prolactin in the luteal phase of the cycle were higher than that in the early follicular phase in normal women.'
'2380'	'Laboratory aids to diagnosis--enzymes.'	''	''	''	"A summary is presented of those organ specific enzyme assays traditionally used in evaluation of the patient with cancer. In addition, the use of certain serum enzymes such as gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, phosphohexose isomerase or 5'-nucleotidase as aids in following the course of the disease, particularly in patients with metastatic spread to the liver is outlined. Also considered is the utility of enzyme analysis in biopsy tissue, biologic fluids, and washings of body cavities. Newer enzymes are considered which might, in the future, be developed as diagnostic tools or as probes for the understanding of the etiology of cancer."
'2401'	'Experience with a simple method for estrogen receptor assay in breast cancer.'	''	''	''	'A simple procedure for the assay of specific estrogen receptors in breast cancer tissue is described. Estrogen receptors were detected in 74% of primary tumors, 71% of skin metastases and 63% of lymph node metastases. Postmenopausal patients and younger oophorectomized women had estrogen receptor-containing tumors more frequently, and at higher levels, than uncastrated, premenopausal, patients. The stability of estrogen receptors was not affected by the transportation of samples from distant hospitals, providing that they were kept frozen in Tris buffer, pH 8.0, at all times.'
'2624'	'An optimized semi-automatic rate method for serum glutathione reductase activity and its application to patients with malignant disease.'	''	''	''	'An improved and optimized method for serum glutathione reductase is described. The reference range for normal subjects is 47-79 IU/1. The method is more sensitive than conventional enzyme tests in the detection of malignant disease. It was not raised more frequently in patients with clinical evidence of metastases than in those clinically free of such metastases, and it did not seem to correlate with prognosis among those patients who failed to survive six months from the time the analysis was first conducted.'
'2827'	'Ornithine decarboxylase activity and DNA synthesis in Morris hepatomas 5123-C and 7800.'	''	''	''	''
'2870'	'Cimetidine suppression of nocturnal gastric secretion in active duodenal ulcer.'	''	''	''	'Nocturnal pain and gastric hypersecretion are common in duodenal ulcer. Therefore, we investigated the antisecretory effects of a new H2-receptor antagonist, cimetidine, in 200-, 300- or 400-mg doses, taken orally at bedtime. The 200-mg dose did not cause a statistically significant change in nocturnal (midnight to 7 a.m.) acid output and had only a borderline effect on pH. However, the 300-mg and 400-mg doses significantly (P less than 0.001) lowered acid output and increased (P less than 0.01) intragastric pH. All doses caused substantial decreases in secretory volume output. After a 400-mg dose, half the patients remained anacidic for eight hours. Dose-related increases of drug blood levels were observed and correlated with the degree and duration of inhibition of acid output. Serum gastrin levels were unaffected. Cimetidine appears to be a potent inhibitor of nocturnal gastric secretion.'
'3076'	'[Electronmicroscopic study of the gravity receptors in ctenophores].'	''	''	''	'Secondarily sensitive receptor balancer cells comprise the gravity receptor in the aboral organ-polivalent organ of Ctenophora. Ctenophora are phylogenetically the first animals which created receptor cell supplied with a single flagellar kinocilium connected with the otolithic apparatus. The receptor balancer cells are innervated by the nerve fiber branched off the nerve cells of the aboral ganglion. The localization of AChE, BuChE products of cytochemical reaction on sodium suggests that the cholinergic mechanism may take part in the process of synaptic transmission. Our morphological data cannot exclude an adrenergic mechanizm also.'
'3102'	'Multiple endocrine adenomatosis syndromes.'	''	''	''	'MEA I and II are two genetically distinct tumor endocrinopathies, both showing autosomal dominant inheritance. Little overlap exists between these conditions, and that which is present can be explained on the basis of two mutually exclusive factors: (1) the secondary consequences of hormone excess on another endocrine gland or (2) the fact that both tumor syndromes appear to result from genetically faulty differentiation of neuroectoderm. A seemingly disproportionate amount of effort has been expended on study of the MEA syndromes. However, there would seen to be ample justification for this interest: 1) The MEA syndromes, unlike most neoplastic conditions, are hereditary and can be readily detected and more expeditiously treated; 2) hormone radioimmunoassay has greatly facilitated diagnosis in asymptomatic individuals; and (3) probably most importantly, study of these syndromes has provided considerable insight into the embryologic origin of the endocrine system. It is conceivable that knowledge gained from these conditions may stimulate further inquiry into the processes whereby neoplasia occurs in endocrine tissue and thus lead the way to the development of effective therapy for a host of hormone-producing tumors.'
'3768'	'[Letter: IGA level in cancer patients].'	''	''	''	''
'4219'	'Carcinoembryonic antigen and phosphohexose isomerase, gammaglutamyl transpeptidase and lactate dehydorgenase levels in patients with and without liver metastases.'	''	''	''	'Plasma carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and serum enzyme levels of phosphohexose isomerase (PHI), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (psi-GTP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were measured in 147 patients with malignancy. Levels were higher in patients (particularly with G.I., breast and lung cancers) than in normals or in patients with cancer in clinical remission. Elevations of CEA and of all three enzymes in blood were most frequent in patients with hepatic metastases. CEA elevations correlated directly with PHI levels. Seventy-eight percent of patients with metastatic G.I. cancer could be identified by CEA (greater than 5 ng/ml) alone, as well as 38% with breast cancer and 85% with lung cancer; but only 17% of other cancers could be identified by CEA alone. CEA or one or more enzymes was elevated in 64% of metastatic breast cancer patients, 92% of lung cancer and 41% of other cancers, but enzyme measurement did not increase identification of G.I. cancer over that achieved by CEA alone. These findings suggest that circulating levels of CEA, PHI, psi-GTP and LDH may reflect a direct contribution from the malignant tissue and/or liver malfunction secondary to liver replacement.'
'4239'	'Evaluation of lipase activity in serum by radial enzyme diffusion.'	''	''	''	'Results of determination of serum lipase by radial enzyme diffusion correlate well with those by a titrimetric reference method in the abnormal range. The specificity of the diffusion assay allows the differentiation of patients with pancreatic disease, even when the lipase activity of the serum is within the normal limits of the tritrimetric assay. Pancreatic lipase is not detectable by the diffusion assay in the serum of individuals who are free from pancreatic disease.'
'4657'	'Proteins of the hepatoma tissue culture cell plasma membrane.'	''	''	''	"The specificity of lactoperoxidase-catalyzed iodination for the proteins of the hepatoma tissue culture cell plasma membrane was examined by histochemical, biochemical, and cell fractionation techniques. Light microscope autoradiography of sectioned cells shows the incorporated label to be localized primarily at the periphery of the cell. Most of this label can be released from the cell by trypsin but not by collagenase or hyaluronidase. The label is recovered from the cells as either monoiodotyrosine or diiodotyrosine after hydrolysis of cell extracts with a mixture of proteolytic enzymes. The label co-purifies during cell fractionation with an authentic liver cell plasma membrane marker enzyme, 5'-nucleotidase. Thus, the incorporated iodide is itself a valid marker for those membrane polypeptides having tyrosine residues accessible to the lactoperoxidase. The polypeptide complexity of the purified plasma membrane was examined by high resolution dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. At least 50 polypeptides in the membrane are accessible to iodination. These polypeptides probably represent the bulk of the protein mass of the membrane and iodinating them does not affect cell viability, growth rate, or cell function. Labeling experiments with fucose and glucosamine show that at least nine of the iodinated peptides may be glycoproteins."
'4666'	'Viability of cells in ethanol. Role of alcohol dehydrogenase.'	''	''	''	'Rodent cells were found to contain a high level of alcohol dehydrogenase activity which was not inducible. Other hepatoma and nonhepatoma cell lines were tested and found to contain lower but measurable levels of alcohol dehydrogenase.'
'4812'	'Difference in the number of insulin binding sites between cortisol-sensitive and cortisol-resistant lymphoma P1798 cells.'	''	''	''	'Cortisol-sensitive and cortisol-resistant lymphoma P1798 cells specifically bind [25I]insulin. Resistant lymphocytes bind 40% less insulin than sensitive cells. These results suggest that insulin (or insulin-like substances) may play a role in growth regulation and/or response of this tumor to glucocorticoid therapy.'
'4882'	'Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in metastatic liver carcinoma and other liver diseases.'	''	''	''	''
'4918'	'Letter: Diagnosis of renal tumor by gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase.'	''	''	''	''
'5168'	'Studies on the chemical nature of urinary chemiluminescence.'	''	''	''	'Studies on the nature of the chemicals responsible for urinary chemiluminescence have been carried out. Urinary chemiluminescence can be increased slightly by sulphatase, more by glucuronidase but most of all by boiling for 1 hour at pH 1. It is suggested that most of the chemicals responsible for urinary chemiluminescence are bound as non-chemiluminescent precursors to sulphate, glucuronic acid and in other ways. Both the chemiluminescent material and the inactive precursors are freely ultrafiltrable with molecular weights below 500. A survey of various chemicals has revealed considerable chemiluminescence in certain metabolites of naphthylamines and known to cause bladder cancer but little or no chemoluminescence in the tryptophane metabolites that have been thought to cause bladder cancer.'
'5326'	'Suppression and stimulation mechanisms controlling glucagon secretion in a case of islet-cell tumor producing glucagon, insulin, and gastrin.'	''	''	''	'The mechanisms controlling secretion of glucagon and other pancreatic hormones were studied in a patient affected with multihormone-secreting islet-cell tumor. Fasting glucagon levels (3,000 pg./ml.) rose to 10 ng./ml. following arginine stimulation. While oral glucose load and intravenous glucose infusion did not suppress glucagon secretion, insulin administration induced a prompt depression in glucagon levels. Glucagon, insulin, and gastrin levels were suppressed by somatostatin while calcium infusion caused a paradoxical increase. It is suggested that only some of the stimulation-inhibition mechanisms were conserved in this case of glucagon-secreting pancreatic tumor.'
'5842'	'Bile canalicular alkaline phosphatase and disease.'	''	''	''	'The alkaline phosphatase reaction is normally absent in human bile canaliculi, but was found in 79 patients. In search for a common causal factor, these patients were further examined. Thirty-seven were autopsied. The conditions most ocmmonly associated with the phenomenon were malignant tumours with or without involvement of the liver, collagen diseases, long-standing partial obstruction of the common bile duct, and genetic variants of alpha-1-antitrypsin. No clinical or laboratory facts were common to all the patients.'
'5878'	"Inhibition of Newcastle disease virus replication by 6-azauridine. I. Inefficacy of purified uridine kinase, effect of adenosine-5'-triphosphate."	''	''	''	"As distinct from cell-free extracts prepared from tumour cells, partially purified uridine kinase prepared from the same cells was not effective in 6-azauridine (AzUrd) inhibition of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) replication. This showed that uridine kinase was not the effective component of cell-free extracts. Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) was found to exert a synergic effect in combination with AzUrd in the inhibition of NDV replication."
'6067'	'Amino acid stimulation of ATP cleavage by two Ehrlich cell membrane preparations in the presence of ouabain.'	''	''	''	'Two membrane fractions prepared from the Ehrlich ascites-tumor cell show non-identical stimulatory responses to certain amino acids in their Mg+2 -dependent activity to cleave ATP, despite the presence of ouabain and the absence of Na+ or K+. The first of these, previously described, shows little (Na+ + K+)-ATPase activity, and is characteristicallly stimulated by the presence of certain diamino acids with low pK2, and at pH values suggesting that the cationic forms of these amino acids are effective. The evidence indicates that these effects are not obtained through occupation of the kinetically discernible receptor site serving characteristically for the uphill transport of these amino acids into the Ehrlich cell. The second membrane preparation was purified with the goal of concentrating the (Na+ +K+)-ATPase activity. It also is stimulated by the model diamino acid, 4-amino-1-methylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid, and several ordinary amino acids. The diamino acids were most effective at pH values where the neutral zwitterionic forms might be responsible. Among the optically active amino acids tested, the effects of ornithine and leucine were substantially stronger for the L than for the D isomers. The list of stimulatory amino acids again corresponds poorly to any single transport system, although the possibility was not excluded that stimulation might occur for both preparations by occupation of a membrane site which ordinarily is kinetically silent in the transport sequence. The high sensitivity to deoxycholate and to dicyclohexylcarbodiimide of the hydrolytic activity produced by the presence of L-ornithine and 4-amino-1-methyl-piperidine-4-carboxylic acid suggests that the stimulatory effect is not merely a general intensification of the background Mg+ -dependent hydrolytic activity.'
'6326'	'Studies of human transcortin at different pHs: circular dichroism, polymerisation and binding affinity.'	''	''	''	'The transcortin we have used in this work is extremely pure. This was shown by the polymerisation observed at pH 4. This polymerisation is never observed with an impure form of transcortin [4]. Moreover, since it is known that the presence of cortisol in the binding site is an essential condition to the activity of purified transcortin [5], it appears that a correlation between the secondary structure and the biological activity of the transcortin exists. The results we have obtained are summarized below: (1) The inhibition of the transcortin binding capacity essentially takes place between pH 5 and 4. (2) A reorganisation of the structure of the protein moiety is observed between pH 6.5 and 5.9. (3) A decrease of the helicity ratio is observed between pH 5 and 4. It appears therefore that, in the limits of experimental accuracy of CD measurements to determine the amount of beta-structure, no appreciable change of binding activity is taking place after the appearance of a large percentage of beta-structure between pH 6.5 and 6. On the other hand, the sudden decrease of protein activity at low pH is likely to be correlated with the disappearance of a well-defined helical region. Other biochemical and physical experiments would be of course necessary, in order to precise this first observation of a structure-function relationship in transcortin.'
'6486'	"Synthetic MIF has no effect on beta-MSH and ACTH hypersecretion in Nelson's syndrome."	''	''	''	"The effect of synthetic MIF (H-Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2) on beta-MSH secretion was studied in five patients with Nelson's syndrome and in one patient with Addison's disease. Two milligrams of the tripetide were injected intravenously (1 mg in an acute injection, followed by a 30-minute-infusion of 1 mg in 20 ml of saline solution). No consistent effect could be observed during the 90-minute period after the beginning of the infusion. In the same patients, LVP stimulation and dexamethasone suppression tests brought about significant changes in the plasma beta-MSH and ACTH levels."
'6600'	'Histamine metabolism. I. Thin-layer radiochromatographic assays for histaminase and histidine decarboxylase enzyme activities.'	''	''	''	'Thin-layer radiochromatographic methods for the measurement of histaminase and histidine decarboxylase activities have been developed. The assays are specific for the respective enzymes, are sensitive and reproducible, and can be performed using commercially available substrates. The histaminase assay permits determination of enzyme activity from 2.5 mul of pregnancy sera, 1-2 X 10(6) human granulocytes, and microgram quantities of partially purified human placenta histaminase with an error of less than 5 per cent. The histidine decarboxylase assay permits measurement of nanogram quantities of newly formed histamine from as few as 2 X 10(4) rat peritoneal mast cells or rat basophilic leukemia cells with an error of less than 5 per cent.'
'6810'	'[Radioreceptor assay of prolactin].'	''	''	''	''
'7240'	'Isolation, by partial pepsin digestion, of the three collagen-like regions present in subcomponent Clq of the first component of human complement.'	''	''	''	'1. Digestion of human subcomponent C1q with pepsin at pH4.45 for 20h at 37 degrees C fragmented most of the non-collagen-like amino acid sequences in the molecule to small peptides, whereas the entire regions of collagen-like sequence that comprised 38% by weight of the subcomponent C1q were left intact. 2. The collagen-like fraction of the digest was eluted in the void volume of a Sephadex G-200 column, was was showm to be composed of two major fragments when examined by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels run in buffers containing sodium dodecyl sulphate. These fragments were separated on CM-cellulose at pH4.9 in buffers containing 7.5M-urea. 3. Human subcomponent C1q on reduction and alkylation yields equimolar amounnts of three chains, which have been designated A, B and C [Reid et al. (1972) Biochem. J. 130, 749-763]. One of the pepsin fragments was shown to be composed of the N-terminal 95 residues of the A chain linked, via residue A4, by a single disulphide bond to a residue in the sequence B2-B6 in the N-terminal 91 residues of the B chain. The second pepsin fragment was shown to be composed of a disulphide-linked dimer of the N-terminal 94 residues of the C chain, the only disulphide bond being located at residue C4.4. The mol. wts. of the unoxidized and oxidized pepsin fragments were estimated from their amino acid compositions to be 20 000 and 18 200 for the A-B and C-C dimers and 11 400, 8800 and 9600 for the collagen-like fragments of the A, B and C chains respectively. Estimation of the molecular weights of the peptic fragments by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis run in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate gave values that were approx. 50% higher than expected from the amino acid sequence data. This is probably due to the high collagen-like sequence content of these fragments.'
'7352'	'Radiation-induced xerostomia in cancer patients. Effect on salivary and serum electrolytes.'	''	''	''	'Saliva and serum electrolyte concentrations were monitored in 30 patients given a course of xerostomia-producing cancer radiotherapy. The mean flow rate of stimulated whole saliva decreased 83.3% during a 6-week treatment period. The striking reduction in saliva output was accompanied by significant increases in saliva Na+, Cl-, Ca++, Mg++ and Prot.- concentrations and by a decrease in saliva HCO3- content. The xerostomic saliva was more concentrated and had a greater salinity than the pretreatment saliva in each instance. In contrast, none of the serum electrolytes measured was significantly altered by the subtotal salivary shutdown.'
'7785'	'gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase, a lymphoid cell-surface marker: relationship to blastogenesis, differentiation, and neoplasia.'	''	''	''	'gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase, an enzyme that catalyzes gamma-glutamyl transfer from gamma-glutamyl compounds to amino acid and peptide acceptors, and which is known to be localized in the membranes of many epithelial cells, was found in a variety of lymphoid cells. The lymphoid cell enzyme is located on the cell surface, and exhibits substantially the same substrate specificity as the enzyme found in epithelial cells. Human and rat (but not mouse) lymphocyte gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was stimulated by treatment of the cells with mitogens. Normal human peripheral B-cells were more active than T-cells, but the reverse relationship of activities was found in chronic lymphocytic leukemia lymphocytes. Human lymphoblastic lines vary markedly in activity. In general, cell lines with B- and T-characteristics from patients with lymphoproliferative diseases had much lower activities than those of B-cell lines derived from normal subjects. The highest activity found was in a human myeloma line active in synthesis of an immunoglobulin light chain. The data indicate that gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase is a surface marker reflecting differentiation in normal and neoplastic cells.'
'7926'	'Amino acid transport in isolated neurons and glia.'	''	''	''	'Our efforts have been directed towards characterizing amino acid uptake, metabolism and release in bulk-isolated glia and neuronal perikarya studied in parallel with nerve-endings, especially as it concerns the transmitter amino acids and the participation of glia in the clearing of the synpatic space during impulse conduction. A possible neuromodulator role for the glia at the synapse is also suggested by K+-stimulated release. Our most definitive conclusions have been based so far on studies with GABA, although we are also beginning to accumulate data for glutamate related to glutamate-glutamine compartmentation. Glia preferentially accumulate potassium and amino acids compared to neuronal perikarya, have higher Na+/K+-ATPase activity, possess high-affinity, sodium-dependent uptake systems for GABA and glutamate similar to the ones in synaptosomes, and release amino acid in response to a potassium pulse by a calcium-independent process. Low neuronal uptake could be due to loss of dendrites. Unidirectional GABA-flux from the synaptosomal to glial compartment is supported by high GAD in nerve endings compared to high GABA-T in glia. Glutamine may be a transmitter glutamate-precursor in nerve-endings since glutaminase activity is high in nerve-endings, but low in glia where glutamine is presumably made. Glutamine uptake in both glia and synaptosomes obeys low-affinity kinetics in contrast to glutamate, consistent with the inability of glutamine to excite the neuronal membrane. The studies with GABA, which are considerably more extensive, are supported by related work using glia in tissue-culture and autoradiography. There appears to be a suggested difference in the behavior of amines which were poorly taken up by the glial system. Glia, synaptosomes and neuronal perikarya, in general behaved similarly with respect to requirements for uptake and release, except in the case of Ca++, which exerted opposite effects on glial and synaptosomal uptake of GABA. We believe that work along these lines tends to firmly establish a direct role for glial cells as modulators of neuronal excitability and represents a convergence between transmitter amino acid neuropharmacology and cellular biochemistry. This not only deepens and enlarges the vocabulary of synaptic biochemistry but also undoubtedly will have major clinical applications in the fields of epilepsy and behavior.'
'8356'	'Gastric and extragastric gastrin release in normal subjects in duodenal ulcer patients, and in patients with partial gastrectomy (Billroth I).'	''	''	''	'In 10 normal subjects, in 32 patients with duodenal ulcer (DU), and in 11 patients with partial gastrectomy (Billroth I), serum gastrin rose significantly after an oral and intraduodenal test meal. The highest increases were observed in DU patients after the oral as well as after the intraduodenal test meal. After the intraduodenal test meal in 4 normal subjects and in 17 DU patients an increase of gastric acid secretion and serum gastrin was measured. In basal state, after an intraduodenal or an oral test meal, DU patients with normal gastric acid secretory capacity had higher serum gastrin concentrations than DU patients with gastric hypersecretion. There was a good correlation between peak serum gastrin levels after the oral and after the intraduodenal test meal. From these data it is concluded: (1) Intraduodenal application of a test meal results in release of gastrin from extragastric sites. (2) Extragastric gastrin is biologically active. (3) DU patients are able to release more antral and more extragastric gastrin in response to a test meal. Further studies, however, are necessary to show the significance of these findings in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease.'
'8726'	'Identification of breast cancer transcortin and its inhibitory role in cell-mediated immunity.'	''	''	''	''
'8740'	'[Statistical analysis of cerebrospinal fluid acid-base equilibrium and cerebrospinal fluid lactate concentration in cases of brain tumors, cerebrocranial injuries and meningoencephalitis].'	''	''	''	'A statistical analysis of CSF lactate concentration and CSF pH and PCO2 was performed. The values were obtained from 211 samples taken from 76 neurosurgical patients. The values of pH and pCO2 were classified in three groups corresponding to the following three ranges of lactate concentration: below 15 mg%, 15-30 mg%, over 30 mg%. The mean values and standard deviations were calculated: suitable tests: F, t (Student), C (Cochran and Cox) were used. It was established, that statistically significant changes of CSF acid-base balance were present at lactate levels over 30 mg%. Next, the patients with lactate concentrations over 30 mg% were analysed. They were divided into three groups according to etiology: inflammatory changes, injuries, tumours. It was shown, that the CSF acid-base balance in patients with brain tumours is less disturbed then in patients with inflammatory changes or brain injury.'
'8753'	'[Letter: Gamma glutamyl-transpeptidase in tumor patients--experiences in Hungary].'	''	''	''	''
'8883'	'[Interaction between gastrointestinal hormones and endocrine regulation].'	''	''	''	'The vicinity of several hormone-producing glands as part of the anatomy of the intestinal tract and the resulting interaction has been confirmed by the discovery of hormonal factors of a specifically gastro-intestinal origin. Today we are mainly interested in the interaction between intermediary metabolism and incretory intestinal function; this is characterized by the joint action of conventional glandular hormones such as insulin and pancreatic glucagon as well as by the incretion of diffuse intestinal organs, hormones such as secretin, pancreozymin, motilin, VIP and GIP. The latter are at present subject of active research with the object of discovering their physiological significance be it as tissue hormones or as humoral agents with a "long distance" impact; their role within pathophysiology is also of interest. GIP ("gastric inhibitory peptide"), apart form acting upon the intestinal tract, also causes a marked rise in insulin production; this GIP possibly is the factor responsible for the difference in glucose tolerance following i. v. or oral administration of glucose, something that scientists have been trying to discover for a long time. We have also endeavored to investigate somatostatin. This substance was originally discovered as a hypothalamic factor with inhibitory action on growth hormone secretion; in the meantime, however, cells containing and possibly also producing somatostatin have also been detected in the intestine and particularly in the islets of Langerhans (D-cells). Since somatostatin inhibits insulin secretion and especially glucagon release as well as the exretory functions of the stomach and of the pancreas, the significance of this hormone possibly is that of a tissue hormone with inhibitory action on adjacent cells. As factor inhibiting both endocrine and exocrine secretory processes it would combine these two complexes. The possible therapeutic significance of somatostatin administration to diabetics would lie in the saving of insulin. A third sector of present-day research deals with the interaction between the calcium metabolism and the hormones involved as well as the intestine. We know that patients suffering from primary hyperparathyroidism are prone to contract stomach ulcers and pancreatitis; patients with a gastrinoma and a hyperfunction of the epithelial bodies suffer from a Zollinger-Ellison-sindrome and this again suggests association with endocrine polyadenomatosis (Wermer syndrome). The inhibitory action of the parathormone antagonist calcitonin on the exocrine functions of the intestinal tract, such as the acid secretion of the stomach and the enzyme secretion of the pancreas, have already given rise to some considerations and experiments relative to treatment. It is to be hoped that because of all the joint observations cited above there will be better intergration of research both from the aspect of gastro-enterology and endocrinology. This might hopefully elucidate some of the unresolved problems ranging from basic research to practical application.'
'9001'	'Plasma activities of lysosomal enzymes after hepatic dearterialization in man.'	''	''	''	'Six patients with liver metastases from carcinoid or colon carcinoma underwent hepatic derterialization. This operation, known to cause both tumor necrosis and liver cell damage, caused considerable increases of several lysosomal acid hydrolases in the circulation. Thus, beta-glucosidase showed a small temporary increase during the operation, followed by a slower but higher reaction reaching a maximum 12 to 36 hours postoperatively. Similar reactions were noted for beta-glucuronidase, acid phosphatase, beta-galactosidase, arylsuphatase A, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase while no reactions were found for cathepsin D. Very high enzyme levels occurred in a patient dying from bleeding complications in the postoperative period.'
'9331'	'Influence of acid secretory state on the gastric mucosal tolerance to back diffusion of H+.'	''	''	''	'The effect of back diffusion of H+ PON THE POTENTIAL DIFFERence (PD), electrical resistance (R), and short circuit current (Isc) of spontaneously secreting and burimamide-inhibited amphibian gastric mucosae were studied in vitro. When back diffusion of H+ was induced by the passage of an electrical current of 510 mua per cm2 from the secretory (S) side of pH 2.25 to the nutrient side (N) for 30 min, the spontaneously secreting mucosae showed small decreases in PD (23.6 leads to 16.2 mv) and Isc (80 leads to 61 mua per cm2) but no significant change in R. In the burimamide-inhibited mucosae there were marked and significantly greater decreases of PD (26.8 leads to 3.4 mv), R (473 leads to 170 ohms cm2) and Isc (50 leads to 13 mua per cm2). When back diffusion of H+ was induced by establishing a concentration gradient of H+ from S leads to N or by exposing the secretory surface to sodium taurocholate with secretory pH 2.25, the burimamide-inhibited tissue demonstrated significantly greater depression of the electrical parameters than the secreting mucosae. Intracellular pH, measured by the 5,5-dimethoxyazolidine-2,4-dione method, was significantly higher in the histamine-stimulated tissues (7.28) than in the metiamide-inhibited tissues (7.11). These studies strongly suggest that the secretory status of the mucosa and hence its acid-base status are important determinants in the tolerance of the tissue to exogenous back diffusion of H+. The measure of absolute loss of H+ From the mucosal solution alone may not be an adequate assessment of the gastric mucosal barrier.'
'9356'	'Phosphohexose isomerase: a useful parameter in the management of neoplasia.'	''	''	''	''
'9383'	'Interaction of tropomyosin with troponin components.'	''	''	''	'1. The TN-T and TN-I components of troponin both interact with tropomyosin and cause its precipitation in 0.1 M KC1 at neutral pH. The precipitate contains both end-to-end and side-by-side aggregates of tropomyosin molecules. 2. The TN-T and TN-I components change the band pattern of tropomyosin paracrystals formed in MgC1(2) solutions, although in different ways. TN-T causes the formation of hexagonal net structures, double-stranded net or paracrystals which result from the collapse of the double-stranded net. TN-I at pH 7.9 causes the formation of paracrystals with a 400 A periodic band pattern and a 200 A repeat. The same band pattern can also be seen in tropomyosin paracrystals formed at pH values below 6.0. 3. The TN-C component does not precipitate tropomyosin in 0.1 M KC1. The aggregates of tropomyosin obtained with either TN-T or TN-I can be solubilized by the addition of TN-C. No interaction of TN-C was observed with tropomyosin paracrystals formed in the presence of MgC12.'
'9598'	'[Critical observations on changes in gamma-glutamyl-transpepdidase in hepatopathies].'	''	''	''	'The behaviour of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was compared with other serum enzyme activities and functional parameters in a carefully selected and relatively extensive series of patients with liver disease, including alcoholics, in an investigation of the underlying pathogenesis and its clinical expression. Reference. to the literature and to personal data showed that increased gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels could be attributed to enzyme induction (caused by drugs or alcohol), liver damage in the broad sense, and intra- or extrahepatic cholestasis. These causes were individually predominant, or nearly so, on occasions, though their concomitance was more common. High levels, however, were not pathognomonic for a given disease. In alcoholism, they were highly indicative, especially if accompanied by GLD changes. They were a virtually constant, early, and typical finding in intra- and extra-hepatic cholestasis, and tended to persist for a time after the resolution of icterus. Lastly, they were an aid in the early diagnosis of aggressive hepatitis and liver cancer.'
'9604'	'Measurement of pituitary hormones: clinical applications. 5. Prolactin.'	''	''	''	'A sensitive and specific assay for human prolactin has been developed using human prolactin and antiserum distributed by the United States National Pituitary Agency. Plasma prolactin concentrations in control subjects ranged from 0-20 ng/ml. No sex difference in prolactin concentration was observed. A brisk increase in plasma prolactin levels occurred in normal subjects during the administration of chlorpromazine and thyroid stimulating hormone releasing factor (TRH). These stimulatory tests of prolactin release should therefore be useful in the assessment of hypothalamic pituitary function. Basal plasma prolactin values were raised in most patients who were being treated with phenothiazines and were helpful diagnostically in patients with amenorrhoea, galactorrhoea, hypogonadism, cranio-pharyngioma, "non-functioning" pituitary tumours and acromegaly. In many of these disorders a significant reduction in the plasma prolactin concentration was observed following oral administration of bromocriptine. Plasma prolactin determinations should be useful in evaluating the response to medical treatment or pituitary ablation.'
'9620'	"Polynucleotides. XL. Synthesis and properties of poly 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenylic acid."	''	''	''	"Poly 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenylic acid (Poly Az) was synthesized from 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenosine diphosphate by polynucleotide phosphorylase. Poly (Az) has U.V. absorption properties similar to poly (A) and hypochromicity of 40% at 0.1 M Na+ and neutrality. CD curve also resembled to that of poly (A), but has smaller ellipticity. Titration of poly (Az) with HCl gave a transition at pH 5.5, but exact structure of the acid-form complex was not elucidated. Upon mixing with poly (U), poly (Az) forms a 1:1 and 1:2 complexes having Tm's somewhat higher than that of poly (A)- poly (U) complex in the same condition."
'9688'	'Disorders induced by pheochromocytoma in the cardiovascular system. A therapeutic approach.'	''	''	''	'The diagnosis of pheochromocytoms is still made only post mortem in a high percentage of the cases. It is important to know both the diversity of clinical forms (of the 16 cases investigated 13 (80%) presented permanent AH, of which 12 cases with paroxysmal attacks, followed by collapse only in one case, and 3 (20%) with paroxysmal AH on a normotensive background) and the severity of cardiovascular accidents, which increases twofold during crises (arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, coronary insufficiency, cerebrovascular strokes, secondary adrenalinic shocks). These complications are preceded by the "alarm syndrome". The preoperatory treatment is associated: blocking of adrenergic alpha-receptors and beta-receptors; correction of hypovolemia, also applied during the surgical phase I (until the venous ligature is made and the tumor excised) under continuous monitoring (ECG, ABP and central venous pressure). In phase II vasoplegin should be promptly corrected by nor. E+E, and corticoids.'
'9787'	'B12 -- dependent methionine synthetase as a potential target for cancer chemotherapy.'	''	''	''	''
'10104'	'[Sialyltransferase in human malignant melanoma].'	''	''	''	'A glycosyltransferase, CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid : glycoprotein sialyltransferase was found in human malignant melanoma. Activities were measured with desialized glycoprotein as an exogenous acceptor. The enzyme was characterized by means of its pH optimum, 5.5, temperature optimum, 30 degrees C, KM values, 10 muM for the sugar nucleotide and 0.3 mM for desialized glycoprotein. It did not require exogenously added metal ions but was slightly stimulated by Mg2+. It required detergent for optimal activity. The effect of nucleotides and sugar nucleotides on enzyme activity has been investigated.'
'10109'	'beta-Glucuronidase and oestrogens in hydatidiform mole.'	''	''	''	'The activity of beta-glucuronidase (beta-D-glucuronide glycuronohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.31) in placental and hydatidiform mole tissue and in sera from non-pregnant, normal and molar pregnant women was determined. The oestrogen concentrations in the two solid tissues were also assayed. Significant differences were found in the activities of the enzyme between placental and molar tissues and among the various sera. The lower activity in molar serum corresponds to a lower concentration of oestrogens in molar tissues and may be regarded as a response to the alleviation of conjugation requirements.'
'10467'	'Histamine H2-receptor antagonists and gastric acid secretion -- a progress report.'	''	''	''	'Histamine H2-receptor antagonists, including burimamide, metiamide and cimetidine, are effective antagonists of histamine-stimulated acid secretion from mammalian, avian or reptilian gastric mucosa. Acid secretion stimulated by gastrin or pentagastrin is also inhibited by these drugs, but there is disagreement about the effects of these drugs on acid secretion resulting from activation of acetylcholine receptors. Based on the pharmacological evidence possibilities of treatment by these drugs were discussed in cases with excessive stimulation of acid secretion due to high blood levels of histamine or gastrin. The positive results in several trials on Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and peptic ulcer were very impressive. Some practical problems have still to be solved, for example the appropriate phase for applying the drugs. The demonstrated clinical effectiveness, however, against peptic ulceration offers a clear alternative to surgery for many patients.'
'10541'	'Gingival crevicular fluid: a new diagnostic aid in managing the periodontal patient.'	''	''	''	'On the whole, the studies on GCF have demonstrated that the flow of this fluid is sufficiently indicative of the inflammatory state that it can be used under a variety of clinical conditions to monitor and control gingival inflammation. Since gingivitis is extremely common, and since some cases of gingivitis presumably do not progress to periodontitis, the question could be posed whether or not a concerted effort to control inflammation (i.e. trying to achieve a GCF flow as near to zero as possible) would be clinically significant. Until there is evidence to the contrary, the answer must be "yes", since few cases are known where periodontitis occurs without being preceded by gingivitis. In other words, the control of all gingivitis, if feasible, should prevent most cases of periodontitis. Although control of all gingivitis would mean the treatment of many cases that would not progress to periodontal breakdown, such efforts would be worth-while if most periodontal destruction were prevented. Even the early destructive lesion exhibiting little or no inflammation may soon be identified, mainly because the minute volume of fluid collected from the gingival crevice can now be measured accurately. Accordingly, the concentration of various constituents in the GCF can be determined, which should lead to the development of tests to differentiate between pockets undergoing active destruction with minimal inflammation from the majority of active lesions that are intimately involved with frank inflammation. Thus, a clinician would measure sub-clinical gingival inflammation by measuring GCF flow, then differentiate destructive from quiescent lesions by analyzing the GCF sample for some constituent(s), chemical or microbial (Listgarten et al. 1975) indicative of the periodontal destructive process. Monitoring the flow of GCF might be of value in other clinical situations. For example, one could monitor the response of gingival tissues to various restorative and prosthetic procedures (Strauss et al. 1975) to ensure that these procedures do not aggravate the periodontal tissues and induce gingivitis or periodontitis. The education of the patient should be easier since patients can read their own numbers on the GCF meter at each examination and self-evaluate their personal periodontal condition and the effectiveness of their home care. Even the education of the dental student should be easier since he or she would have the means of self-evaluating the effectiveness of treatment, and not be as dependent upon the subjective assessment of his efforts by an instructor. Finally, monitoring GCF for various components could provide the dentist with a valuable means of easily screening patients for systemic disease. Obviously, this area of investigation is in its infancy, but does promise an exciting future for the oral diagnostician.'
'10716'	'A new pattern of multiple endocrine adenomatosis: chemodectoma, bronchial carcinoid, GH-producing pituitary adenoma, and hyperplasia of the parathyroid glands, and antral and duodenal gastrin cells.'	''	''	''	'A female patient was found to have a chemodectoma, a GH-producing pituitary tumour and a bronchial carcinoid combined with hyperplasia of the parathyroids and of antral and duodenal gastrin cells. This combination of endocrine tumours and hyperplasias does not fit with the two multiple endocrine adenomatosis syndromes recognized at present. The case stresses the importance of scanning the patient for other endocrine tumours, once one has been diagnosed.'
'10885'	'Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 16alpha-hydroxylase in cultured human lymphocytes.'	''	''	''	'Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 16alpha-hydroxylase were examined in intact, cultured human lymphocytes. The two microsomal mixed-function oxygenases had different pH optima and showed competitive inhibition for enzyme induction and activity. Population distributions were lognormal for both enzymes, giving apparent evidence for polygenic control. Induced levels of AHH were slightly higher among first-order relatives of lung or colon cancer patients than in the control group. The correlation coefficient (r) for AHH and SAH coinducibility was -0.08, indicating no correlation and suggesting the absence of association between the two enzymes in man.'
'10915'	'Involvement of protein synthesis in the post-translational control of glutamine synthetase activity of cultured hepatoma cells.'	''	''	''	''
'11029'	'The relationship of the serum gastrin and calcium concentrations in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I.'	''	''	''	'The relationship between the serum gastrin and calcium concentrations has been examined in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I. Variations in gastrin concentrations were induced by metiamide and secretin; calcium concentrations were altered by parathyroidectomy and by calcium infusion. Changes in the serum gastrin concentrations were not accompanied by changes in the serum calcium concentration. However, alteration of the serum calcium was accompanied by significant parallel changes in the serum gastrin. It is concluded that acute changes in the serum calcium may induce changes in the serum gastrin. Parathyroidectomy in these patients produced a fall in the serum gastrin, but the ability to produce large quantities of gastrin remains. It is postulated that the thyro-parathyroid hormones may modulate the relationship between calcium and gastrin.'
'11043'	'Microdose mammography.'	''	''	''	'Tens of thousands of mammograms are performed daily in the United States. Accumulated radiation biologic data suggest that approximately 90-rad is the level of radition to the breast above which the incidence of cancer may be increase. A microdose system of roentgenography is described that provides better images at one-third to one-fifth the exposure of the commonly used low-dose system and about one-eight to one-tenth the dose of Xeromammography. This system should allow for repeated x-ray study in a patient as required, without exceeding the critical level.'
'11178'	'Synthesis of alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotrophin by presumptive HeLa cells.'	''	''	''	'Several cell lines, originally thought to be derived from a human placenta at term but possibly HeLa-contaminated, have been studied. These cells secrete a protein indistinguishable immunochemically from the alpha subunit of chorionic gonadotropin but not the beta subunit of chorionic gonadotropin or placental lactogen. Complete chorionic gonadotropin was detected but amounted to less than 1% of the level of the alpha subunit. The cells also produce an alkaline phosphatase similar to placental alkaline phosphatase in immunochemical, gel-electrophoretic, and heat-denaturation properties. They induce tumor growth when inoculated into nude mice. These cells are aneuploid and have a model chromosome number of 66. The common HeLa karyologic markers, designated 1, 2, and 3, and A-type glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase are present in these cells. HeLa cells have not previously been shown to secrete the alpha subunit of hCG.'
'11182'	'Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in diseases of the hepatobiliary system.'	''	''	''	''
'11197'	'[Prolactin in male reproduction].'	''	''	''	'Prolactin (PRL), a peptide hormon from the hypophysis, becomes more interesting, since it can be determined by radioimmunassays. The release of prolactin is controlled by two not yet identified factors, the prolactin-releasing-factor and the prolactin-inhibiting-factor. The latter predominantes. Many pharmacological substances can alter the release. The normal serum levels in the man are 6-13 ng/ml. Prolactin affects many organs, f.e. kidney, mamma, ovary, testis, hepar and skin. For clinical tests the raise in the serum levels after TSH or chlorpromacin and the drop after application of 2-brom-alpha-ergocryptin is used. Increased serum levels are found in patients with prolactin-producing tumors. In the male this is followed by disturbances of the sexual potency. Relations between prolactin and male infertility of gynecomastia are not yet known.'
'11381'	'Fasting does not abolish the diurnal oscillation of ornithine decarboxylase activity in Morris hepatoma 5123-C.'	''	''	''	''
'11553'	'[Glucagon producing adenomatosis of Islands of Langerhans with polyendocrine symptoms].'	''	''	''	'A patient in whom Cushing syndrome had been diagnosed at the age of 23 was found 14 years later to have subclinical diabetes mellitus, subcutaneous calcified fat tissue necroses, and hypergastrinemia suggesting Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Histopathologic investigation revealed pancreatic adenomatosis of the glucagon producing A2-cells with accompanying B-cell hyperplasia, and hyperplasia of the adrenal cortex. The origin of the increased serum gastrin concentration in this patient is not yet known. The significance of A2-cell proliferation in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and and in multiple endocrine adenomatosis is discussed.'
'11561'	'Recent studies on the identification of proliferative abnormalities and of oncogenic potential of cutaneous cells in individuals at increased risk of colon cancer.'	''	''	''	'This recent study describes the growth characteristics of ACR skin fibroblasts in culture and their differential susceptibility to transformation by Kirsten murine sarcoma virus (Ki-MSV). The SF were derived from normal appearing subepidermoid biopsies of ACR individuals, their progeny and ocntrols. Normal SF were contact-inhibited and grew only in 15% FCS. SF of ACR subjects, and some asymptomatic ACR progeny were not contact inhibited, grew in both 1% and 15% FCS and were considerably more susceptible to transformation by Ki-MSV than were control SF. The virally transformed SF showed a loss of anchorage dependency in methylcellulose and formed tumors in athymic mice. The results suggest the presence of early and previously undetected metabolic lesions in SF from clinically asymptomatic subjects. These phenotype markers are currently evaluated for their utility in the clinical diagnosis of individuals with latent ACR and those at increased risk for colon cancer. SF from ACR individuals have been recently shown to contain significant alterations in the intracellular distribution of actin (R. Pollack and L. Kopelovich, in preparation), and elevated levels of plasminogen activator (L. Kopelovich).'
'11834'	'Glucose 6-phosphate-dependent binding of hexokinase to membranes of ascites tumor cells.'	''	''	''	'A pH-dependent, saturable binding of hexokinase isozyme I from Ehrlich ascites carcinoma to plasma membrane and microsome preparations from the same tissue is demonstrated. This binding is enhanced by glucose 6-phosphate and may be considered as the sum of a glucose 6-phosphate-dependent binding and an independent binding. The half saturation concentration of hexokinase is about 0.4 unit per ml for both types of binding, and a maximal binding of 0.5-2.0 units per mg membrane protein is observed for both, although the pH optimum of the independent binding (5.4) is lower than that of the dependent binding (5.9). The half saturation concentration of glucose 6-phosphate required for the dependent binding is 0.05 mM at pH 6.1. 2-Deoxyglucose 6-phosphate competatively reverses the effect of glucose 6-phosphate on binding but does not diminish its inhibition of hexokinase activity.'
'12118'	'Hormone-receptor interactions--basic mechanisms.'	''	''	''	'An understanding of the basic mechanisms of hormone action is becoming an important part of a clinician\'s training. With the advent of radioreceptor assays and their comparison with radioimmunoassays, we are becoming increasingly aware that the normal physiological function of a hormone is not necessarily dependent on "normal" levels of hormone being present in the plasma. Even if plasma levels are normal, if a particular target cell lacks the receptor for the particular hormone the target tissue will not respond to the hormone. It has been shown, for example, by many workers that steroid hormones act on their cells via a receptor located in the cytoplasm of the target cells (1-4). Since the presence or absence of such receptors are becoming increasingly important in terms of unexplained infertility, endometrial carcinoma and breast cancer, it is necessary that the practicing clinician be familiar with the concept of receptors and have some understanding of their mode of action. In this brief presentation, I will explain certain terminology and summarize the state of the art so that you can critically read the literature concerning new developments in the area of hormone action which is to become increasingly important in the next few years. I will discuss some of the aspects of the mechanism of peptide hormones such as LH and FSH but will devote most of my attention discussing the details of steroid hormone action since our knowledge in this area is much more complete. I will also explain the terms frequently discussed in the literature concerned with hormone-receptor interactions.'
'12149'	'The mechanism of reassembly of immunoglobulin G.'	''	''	''	'The noncovalent interaction of light (L) chain with heavy (H) chain or Fd isolated from a human myeloma protein Jo (IgG1, kappa) was studied by following circular dichroic (CD) change at 235 nm. The dimerization constants of Jo-L chain determined by measuring the CD change at 293 nm with protein concentration showed that the Jo-L chain exists as the monomeric form under the experimental conditions used for recombination with H chain. The second-order rate constants for the interaction between H and L chains were in good agreement with those for the interaction between Fd and L chain at various pH values. The binding behavior of L chain to Fd could be described by a single association constant. In the interpretation of the binding of L chain to H chain, however, it was necessary to assume that the binding of L chain to one of the two sites on H chain dimer (H2) decreases the affinity of the other site for L chain. The binding constant of the first L chain to H2 was the same as that of L chain to Fd. Renaturation processes of L chain, Fd, Fab(SS) fragment (with intact interchain disulfide bond), and Fab(RA) fragment (in which the interchain disulfide bond had been reduced and alkylated) from the denatured states in 0.5 or 1 M acetic acid on neutralization were studied. The renaturation of Fd occurred very rapidly, while that of L chain consisted of a very rapid process and a slow process which followed first-order kinetics. The renaturation process of Fab(SS) consisted of rapid and slow phases, of which the latter followed first-order kinetics. The renaturation process of Fab(RA) also consisted of rapid and slow phases, but the latter process followed second-order kinetics. The overall rate constant of renaturation of Fab(RA) was the same as that of the reformation of Fab(RA) from isolated Fd and L chain. On the basis of these facts, the kinetic mechanism by which Fd and L chain recombine to yield Fab(RA) can be described in terms of the scheme Fd + L in equilibrium Fd ... L leads to Fab(RA), where Fd ... L is an intermediate, and CD change is only observed in the second unimolecular process and not in the first bimolecular process.'
'12151'	'A study of the interaction between D-amino acid oxidase and quasi-substrates.'	''	''	''	'To study the interaction between D-amino acid oxidase [EC 1.4.3.3] and quasi-substrates such as benzoate and o-, m-, and p-aminobenzoate, visible circular dichroism spectra (CD spectra) were measured and the binding rate and affinity of o-aminobenzoate to the enzyme were observed by following the absorption changes at various wavelengths. We found a new CD band around 560 nm, corresponding to the charge-transfer complexes which result from the formation of aminobenzoate complexes with the enzyme. The ellipticity of this band was positive for the p-aminobenzoate complex, but negative for the o- and m-aminobenzoate complexes. Crossover points in CD spectra were observed at 470 nm for the m-aminobenzoate complex and at 475 nm for the o-aminobenzoate complex. They probably resulted from overlapping of the positive CD band of FAD bound with the enzyme and the negative CD band of the charge-transfer complex. We propose that the amino group in aminobenzoate, not the pi-electrons of the benzene ring, is the electron donor in the charge-transfer complex and that the position of the amino group is very important for the charge-transfer interaction. The binding rate and affinity of o-aminobenzoate to the enzyme were determined using the absorption changes at 370 nm (380 nm), caused by the modification of electronic states of FAD bound with the enzyme, and at 550 nm (565 nm), caused by the formation of the charge-transfer complex of o-aminobenzoate with the enzyme. No differences between these parameters with wavelength were observed. This independence of wavelength simplifies discussion of the experimental data obtained from absorption changes.'
'12256'	'Acetylcholine synthesis in sympathetic human neuroblastoma.'	''	''	''	'The synthesis of acetylcholine, as well as catecholamines, was studied by assaying the activities of choline acetyltransferase (ChA) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the tumor tissues and the culture cells of human neuroblastoma. In the majority of 20 neuroblastomas of sympathetic origin, both ChA and TH activities were detected at a significantly high level. In the culture cells of five cell lines of human neuroblastoma, ChA activity was high, but TH was negative in four of the lines. However, it was observed that these enzyme activities changed significantly while in the long-term culture. ChA assay is a useful diagnostic test for neuroblastomas that synthesize acetylcholine. Future studies of neuroblastoma should consider cholinergic activity.'
'12529'	'Investigations of the mechanism of central action of kinins.'	''	''	''	'The effects of kinins on the level of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin and on their metabolites, i.e., normetanephrine, homovanillic acid, and 5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid in the brain tissue divided into cerebellum, corpus striatum, cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, and midbrain were investigated. It was shown that bradykinin in a dose of 4 mug decreased the content of norepinephrine in corpus striatum, midbrain, and cerebellum. It also decreased the level of dopamine in corpus striatum but increased the level of serotonin in corpus striatum and midbrain. Similar changes were observed with 100 Mu/kg of kallikrein. It was that changed levels of investigated neuromediators are accompanied by changed levels of their metabolites. Bradykinin, in a dose of 4 mug, decreased the level of normetanephrine in corpus striatum, hippocampus, and midbrain and the level of homovanillic acid in corpus striatum, and increased the level of 5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid in corpus striatum and hippocampus. It was also shown that bradykinin increased norepinephrine uptake by the blood platelets when its level in the platelets was low, and released the absorbed norepinephrine into the medium when the level of norepinephrine was higher. The above results confirm the existence of an interaction of kinins with neuromediators in the central nervous system.'
'12635'	'[New findings on human prolactin].'	''	''	''	'Since prolactin (HPRL) occurs as a separate pituitary hormone in man the paper will discuss results about the mechanisms involved regulation of HPRL secretion. A number of factors which lead to an increase in HPRL secretion are named. The clinical relevance of HPRL inhibiting substances as L-DOPA and 2-Br-alpha-ergocryptine is mentioned. The influence of HPRL in pregnancy and lactation period is described also the regulative effect of HPRL on hormone-dependent breast tumors.'
'12847'	'Experience with incompatible maternal donors for bone marrow transplantation.'	''	''	''	'Marrow transplantation in aplastic anemia and leukemia has generally been limited to siblings who have been histocompatible at both the serological (A and B) and lymphocyte determined (D or MLC) loci of the HLA system. We studied three male patients, two with aplastic anemia and one with acute myelogenous leukemia, who received transplants from their histoincompatible mothers. MLC studies between donors and recipients showed varying degrees of stimulation. Definite engraftment occurred in one patient and transient engraftment in another. Engraftment in the third patient could not be evaluated. In the patient with sustained engraftment, there was clinical evidence of severe graft versus host disease (GVHD) however, this was not substantiated by histologic findings. This preliminary study suggests that MLC incompatibility may be more of an indicator of the risk of GVHD than of bone marrow rejection. If more effective control of GVHD can be accomplished, marrow transplantation between MLC-reactive individuals may become feasible.'
'12889'	'N-Acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole.'	''	''	''	'The N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole is two-fold higher than that in full-term placenta. Qualitatively, the enzymes from the two tissues are similar with respect to KM values and pH optima. Both enzymes also contain a new isoenzyme form detectable by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. However, the molar enzyme is more susceptible to heat denaturation, presumably due to the presence of a higher level of the heat-labile isoenzyme form A in this tissue. Data are also presented incicating that the placenta is not the source of the N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in maternal serum.'
'13027'	'Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase as a biological marker for human leukemia.'	''	''	''	'High levels of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase have been observed in leukocytes of 7 out of 20 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute blast phase of the disease. These levels are comparable to the levels observed in human and calf thymus gland and cell lines with some T cell characteristics (Molt 4 and 8402). Negligible levels of this activity were observed in chronic myelogenous leukemia not in an acute blast phase of the disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, human B cells, mature T cells, and the mixed population of lymphocytes present in normal human blood. The detection of this enzyme in some patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute blast phase of the disease suggests that the blast proliferation may involve primitive stem cells which have more lymphoid than myelogenous characteristics. This enzyme assay may be of use as a biological marker for following patients during treatment and in remission.'
'13337'	'Hormone production in ovarian carcinomas. Histochemical approach in stroma reaction.'	''	''	''	'Enzymatically active stromal cells (EASC) in different ovarian tumors are concerned with hormon production. 198 cases of ovarian tumors were investigated by different histochemical methods. Distribution of lactate-and glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase was investigated by plaimetric measurement.--EASC were found in benign ovarian tumors in 48%, in malignant in 30%. They are found exclusively in ovarian tumors and are completely absent in metastases. Incidence is dependent on histological type of tumor. With regard to untreated ovarian carcinoma containing EASC, these cells cover an aerea of 1.9% (0.5-5.9%). EASC occur in a very high percentage after menopause and are reduced by chemotherapy or radioation. Incidence of EASC in ovarian tumors is in relation with postmenopausal bleeding. Glandular-cystic endometrium is noticed only in connection with EASC. There is a positive relation between the quantity of EASC and the incidence of bleeding.--EASC are characterized by a strong NADP-dependent-dehydrogenase-reaction and reactions for lactate-, malate-dehydrogenases and alcaline phosphatases. Apart from that these cells are not all uniform. It seems that the enzymatically active fibrocytes are the first step of theca-like cells which are then luteinized and finally filled up with cholesterol. Histochemistry of EASC in comparison with other steroid-producing tissues make possible, that these cells have an estrogenic and more seldomly also an androgenic activity.'
'13529'	'[Renal tubular acidosis, Renin-aldosterone system illustrated by a case with pronounced hypokalemia].'	''	''	''	''
'13761'	'Monoamine metabolism in human brain.'	''	''	''	'Norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) levels were measured in human brain tissue obtained at autopsy from a series of 39 patients dying of various medical and accidental causes. The nine following brain areas were studied: globus pallidus, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, substantia nigra, floor of the fourth ventricle, orbital cortex, caudate nucleus, and mammillary bodies. Enzyme activity correlated positively with age in all brain areas for MAO (with both benzylamine and tryptamine substrates) but no consistent pattern of correlation was found for COMT and TH. Mean MAO activity was significantly higher in women than men. There is increased brain MAO activity during late childhood and adolescence. These data are consistent with previous evidence suggesting that age and sex are important determinants of amine metabolism in the human central nervous system.'
'13805'	'Acute-phase reactant protein profiles: an aid to monitoring large bowel cancer by CEA and serum enzymes.'	''	''	''	'The profiles of 4 acute-phase reactant proteins (APRPs) (haptoglobin (HPT), alpha1 antitrypsin (AAT), alpha1 acid glycoprotein (AGP) and prealbumin (PALB)) have been studied during the evolution of bowel cancer. Serial measurements of these APRPs can add to the information obtained from measurements of the level of CEA and hepatic enzymes during the monitoring of postoperative patients. There is considerable stability in the profile in a given individual in health, Rises of AAT and AGP are associated with metastases. High levels of HPT may suggest involvement of the bowel wall by recurrent cancer. PALB levels tend to reflect the nutritional status. A discriminant function based on the log CEA, AAT and AGP preoperative blood levels can considerably improve on the predictive value attained using CEA levels alone.'
'13928'	'beta-Hexosaminidase isozymes in human colonic carcinoma.'	''	''	''	'Isoelectric focusing of crude extracts demonstrated that human colonic carcinomas contained a higher proportion of beta-hexosaminidase B than beta-hexosaminidase A, while normal human colonic mucosa contained a higher proportion of the A form of the enzyme. Studies of the isolated isozymes showed that beta-hexosaminidase B was more stable to heat and more active at low pH than beta-hexosaminidase A. Kinetic studies revealed that the A and B forms of beta-hexosaminidase had essentially the same Km and Vmax for p-nitrophenyl-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminide.'
'13929'	'Hepatic microsomal N-glucuronidation and nucleic acid binding of N-hydroxy arylamines in relation to urinary bladder carcinogenesis.'	''	''	''	"Uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-fortified hepatic microsomes from dogs, rats, or humans rapidly metabolized [3H]-N-hydroxy-2-naphthylamine (N-HO-2-NA) to a water-soluble product that yielded 98% of the parent N-hydroxy amine upon treatment with beta-glucuronidase. The metabolite was identified as N-(beta-1-glucosiduronyl)-N-hydroxy-2-naphthylamine from ultraviolet, infrared, and mass spectral analyses of the glucuronide and its nitrone derivative. Incubation of N-hydroxy-1-naphthylamine (N-HO-1-NA), N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-HO-ABP), or the N-hydroxy derivatives of 2-aminofluorene, 4-aminoazobenzene, or N-acetyl-2-aminofluorene with uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-fortified hepatic microsomes also yielded water-soluble products. beta-Glucuronidase treatment released 80 to 90% of the [3H]-NHO-1-NA and [3H]-N-HO-ABP conjugates as tritiated ether-extractable derivatives. N-HO-1-NA, N-HO-2-NA, and N-HO-ABP and the glucuronides of these N-hydroxy arylamines were relatively stable and nonreactive near neutral pH. At pH 5, the N-glucuronide of N-HO-2-NA and the presumed N-glucuronides of N-HO-1-NA and N-HO-ABP were rapidly hydrolyzed to the N-hydroxy arylamines that were then converted to reactive derivatives capable of binding covalently to nucleic acids. These data support the concept that arylamine bladder carcinogens are N-oxidized and N-glucuronidated in the liver and that the N-glucuronides are transported to the urinary bladder. The hydrolysis of the glucuronides to N-hydroxy arylamines and the conversion of the latter derivatives to highly reactive electrophilic arylnitrenium ions in the normally acidic urine of dogs and humans may be critical reactions for tumor induction in the urinary bladder."
'13935'	'Impairment of enzyme induction by glucocorticoids in Zajdela hepatoma cells.'	''	''	''	'Whereas glucocorticoids induce TAT, TRP, GPT in liver and only TAT in HTC cells, no hormonal effect on the synthesis of these enzymes was found in Zajdela hepatoma cells grown in vivo as an ascitic tumor, or in vitro as layer cultures. Although these cells remain uninducible, the hormone penetrates normally, but a strong decrease of the specific binding of cytosol and nuclear proteins with the hormone was observed. The impairment at the level of the hormone receptors could account for the non-inducibility of enzyme synthesis in ZHC cells.'
'14041'	'Comparison of the in vitro conversion of estradiol-17 beta to estrone of normal and neoplastic human breast tissue.'	''	''	''	'Specific activity  of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) was measured in 48 tissue specimens of human female breast cancer and, in addition, 48 nonmalignant tissue specimens obtained in each case from the same cancer-bearing breast. In all cases the nonmalignant tissue showed greater conversion of estradiol-17 beta into estrone than the neoplastic tissues. In normal human breast tissue of premenopausal women specific enzyme activity depended on the phase of the MENSTRUAL CYCLE: the highest values of 17 beta-HSD activity were found in the early secretory phase. To determine the intracellular distribution of the 17 beta-HSD, purified microsomes, mitochondria, peroxysomes, lysosomes, nuclei and cytosol fractions were prepared. The purity of each fraction was monitored by marker enzymes. It was found that the 17 beta-HSD was mainly located in mitochondria and microsomes. Furthermore it could be demonstrated that the microsomal enzyme was bound tightly to the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum, while the mitochondrial 17 beta-HSD was mainly associated with the outer membranes of the organelle. Kinetic parameters (Km-values, coenzyme requirements and maximal velocities) of a cytoplasmic, nuclear, mitochondrial and microsomal 17 beta-HSD of normal and neoplastic human mammary tissue were compared. Maximal velocity was highest in enzyme preparations of normal mammary tissue obtained from premenopausal women in the early secretory phase. Km-values wrere nearly identical in normal and neoplastic mammary tissue preparations (approx. 1 X 10(-6) M). NAD was more efficient than NADP as a cofactor. For the conversion of estradiol to estrone the optimum temperature was approximately 40 degrees C and the optimum pH 9.5. For the reduction of estrone the optimum pH was 6.5. Sulphydryl groups were shown to be essential for catalysis.'
'14048'	'Carcinoembryonic character of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase in primary hepatocellular carcinoma.'	''	''	''	'As a characteristic isoenzyme of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) has been detected in sera of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma, which migrates to alpha-globulin region on polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, biochemical studies on human fetal liver, Morris hepatoma (7316-A, 7794-A), and human hepatoma was carried out to elucidate its carcinoembryonic character. The highest distribution of the enzyme was found in particle fraction of human fetal liver as well as of Morris hepatoma, and an isoenzyme of gamma-GTP with the same electrophoretic mobility as detected in human hepatoma was obtained, which reflected to the pattern of the serum zymograms. Histochemically, the enzyme was distributed in plasma membrane of the fetal hepatocytes and Morris hepatoma cells, while it was distributed diffusely throughout the cytoplasm of human hepatoma cells. These findings may strongly suggest that gamma-GTP in hepatoma has a carcinoembryonic character and the detection of a serum isoenzyme in the alpha-globulin region is a quite diagnostic as well as the detection of alpha-fetoprotein in the field of neoplasma of the liver. The physicochemical and kinetic properties of the enzyme in human hepatoma were also discussed.'
'14099'	'Can alveolar pCO2 exceed pulmonary end-capillary CO2? Yes.'	''	''	''	'In 1891 Christian Bohr observed that alveolar PCO2 could exceed arterial PCO2 when high levels of CO2 were present in the inspired air. He proposed that CO2 could be secreted by the lung. His hypothesis was dismissed as being due to experimental error; however, recently the same phenomenon was rediscovered using modern techniques. A possible explanation for the phenomenon may involve coupling between diffusion and chemical reaction of H+, HCO3-, and CO2 in the vicinity of a negatively charged capillary wall, causing the PCO2 to be higher near the wall that in the bulk phase of capillary blood.  Alveolar PCO2 is related to the PCO2 near the wall rather than the bulk phase PCO2. The Charged Membrane Hypotheses can explain the phenomenon of CO2 secretion not by a cellular mechanism, but a physical chemical disequilibrium within the capillary which is maintained by blood flow through the capillary.'
'14100'	'Can alveolar pCO2 exceed pulmonary end-capillary CO2? No.'	''	''	''	'The exchanges and chemical reactions of CO2 within the blood are not complete during its transit time through the alveolar capillaries, so that theoretically alveolar PCO2 cannot exactly equal end-capillary blood PCO2. However, as a practical matter, the technical errors in determining alveolar and peripheral arterial PCO2 are so large in comparison with the difference between pulmonary arterial PCO2 and pulmonary venous PCO2, owing to the large effective solubility of CO2 in blood, that for this reason alone any difference between alveolar and end-capillary PCO2 can be neglected. The hypothetical mechanism that was originally proposed by Gurtner, Song, and Farhi for the production of an alveolar PCO2 greater than end-capillary PCO2 during rebreathing and depends on the existence of a radial gradient of H+ X HCO3- in the capillary blood near the wall appears unlikely because a) it would require a significant separation of charged ions over a large proportion of the capillary length and for a large proportion of the blood transit time and b) it would require a large radial gradient of PCO2 within the blood which on thermodynamic grounds would in turn require an unreasonable amount of energy to maintain.'
'14442'	'The role of prolactin in carcinogenesis.'	''	''	''	''
'14460'	"[Stability in drinking and surface water of nine virus species from different genera (author's transl)]."	''	''	''	'The stability of nine viruses, Aujeszky, Sindbis, Vesicular Stomatitis, Newcastle Disease, Vaccinia, FMD, HCC, Reo and Teschen virus in drinking and surface water was investigated comparatively at temperatures of 9 and 15 degrees C as well as the influence of water factors like seasonal difference in temperature, pH value, hardness and sort of water. The results can be summarized as follows: 1. At temperatures of 9 to 15 degrees C the majority of the viruses remained stabil in natural water for an astonishing long time. 2. Starting with virus concentration of about 10(4) infectious units per ml Teschen, Vaccinia, Reo, HCC and ND virus could mostly be demonstrated in water longer than 200 days and FMD, Aujeszky, Vesicular Stomatitis and Sindbis virus for 20 to 50 days on average at 9 degrees C. The stability of the viruses investigated decreased in water in the named turn. 3. Based on these results it can be assumed that under natural conditions with very low virus content of some particles the labile viruses such as Toga, Herpes, Rhabdo and pH labile Picorna remain infectious in water for some days. They should not have any importance as water contaminants. More resistant viruses like Paramyxo may keep infectious for weeks and very stabile viruses such as Entero, Reo, Adeno and Pox viruses several weeks to months. 4. As to factors temperature, pH, hardness and sort of water-within the naturally differing range-only the temperature and only in the case of less resistant viruses showed significant influence on the virus stability in water.'
'14500'	'Renin and aldosterone secretion in pheochromocytoma. Effect of chronic alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade.'	''	''	''	'Patients suffering from pheochromocytoma characterized by an exclusive or almost exclusive excess of norepinephrine showed no (one patient) or only a moderate increase (two patients) in renin and aldosterone secretion. In those three patients with concomitant distinct hypersecretion of epinephrine, renin release (and aldosterone secretion except in one patient) was markedly enhanced. Similar results were obtained in a patient with excess norepinephrine and dopamine secretion. Renin release was markedly reduced in all patients during preoperative long-term alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade. With the exception of one patient, increased renin and aldosterone secretion was abolished. The results indicate that augmentation in renin release depends on the ratio of the different catecholamines secreted by the pheochromocytoma and their different effe-tiveness in stimulating beta-adrenergic receptors. Even in the presence of excess catecholamine secretion, there is evidence that renin secretion is predominantly mediated by beta receptors rather than by renal vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors. Normalization of catecholamine-induced enhanced renin release in patients with pheochromocytoma during chronic alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade supports the assumption that (alpha-) adrenergic blocking agents inhibit renin secretion distal to their blockade of specific adrenergic receptors. However, contrary to beta-adrenergic blockade, circadian rhythm of renin release seems to remain intact during alpha-adrenergic blockade.'
'14782'	'Production of formaldehyde from N5-methyltetrahydrofolate by normal and leukemic leukocytes.'	''	''	''	'Extracts of human normal and leukemic leukocytes contain an enzyme that catalyzes a transfer of labeled methyl carbon from N5-[14C]methyltetrahydrofolate to tryptamine. Evidence is presented that this reaction is not attributable to a methyltransferase but to the following reaction sequence: (a) an oxidation of N5-[14C]methyltetrahydrofolate to N5, N10-[14C]methylenetetrahydrofolate that is catalyzed by N5, N10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (EC 1.1.1.68); (b) spontaneous release of [14C]formaldehyde from N5, N10-[14C]methylenetetrahydrofolate; and (c) nonenzymatic condensation of [14C]formaldehyde with tryptamine to form a radioactive carboline derivative. The occurrence of this sequence in leukocytes is suggested by data that show that the enzyme reaction is strongly stimulated by addition of flavin adenine dinucleotide and that the final product is chromatographically identical to the adduct formed in the reaction of [14C]formaldehyde with tryptamine. In the absence of tryptamine, a product accumulates that can react with other HCHO acceptors, i.e., beta-phenylethylamine and dimedone; another reaction product is tetrahydrofolate. Production of formaldehyde is relatively more active in normal lymphocytes than in normal granulocytes, but it is even higher in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Activity in granulocytes from a subject with chronic myelocytic leukemia is also elevated but to a lesser extent than activity in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Activity in granulocytes from a subject with chronic myelocytic leukemia is also elevated but to a lesser extent than activity in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Formaldehyde production in leukocytes is only slightly stimulated by addition of various cobalamins, and activity is normal in leukocytes from a vitamin B12-deficient patient. We conclude that the system is cobalamin independent. Thus, there exists an active pathway from N5-methyltetrahydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate other than the one catalyzed by cobalamin-dependent N5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase.'
'14784'	'Inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase, in vitro.'	''	''	''	'A systematic search has been made for inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase (L-glutamine hydrolyzing, EC 6.3.5.4) from leukemia 5178Y/AR, a rodent neoplasm resistant to the oncolytic enzyme L-asparaginase (EC 3.5.1.1), The classes of chemicals examined in this search included substrate and product analogs, agents capable of reacting with sulfhydryl functions, and a variety of modifiers whose mechanism of interaction with proteins is known. In general, antagonists of L-glutamine and thiol reagents proved to be the most effective inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase from this tumor source. Within these groups, certain structural prerequisites to inhibition are reported. Attempts to correlate oncolytic potency with enzyme-inhibitory potency were unsuccesful.'
'14906'	'The activity and distribution of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (y-GT) in human foetal organs.'	''	''	''	'The activity and distribution of y-GT was investigated in a number of organs from human foetuses aged from 14 to 24 weeks post menstruationem. Over this period, enzyme activity increased in the kidney, pancreas and thymus, but decreased in the small intestine. No trend could be established for the liver, although activity was high. In the lung, spleen, brain and adrenals, y-GT was either detectable at very low levels or could not be demonstrated. The possible relationship between y-GT activity in some human tumours and the enzyme level in the corresponding foetal organs is discussed.'
'14970'	'Insulin, proinsulin, glucagon and gastrin in pancreatic tumors and in plasma of patients with organic hyperinsulinism.'	''	''	''	'Insulin, proinsulin, glucagon and gastrin were determined in extracts of tumors of 27 patients with pancreatic islet cell neoplasia of pancreas, in one patient with nesidioblastosis, in extracts of uninvolved portions of the pancreas in 11 of the tumor patients and of 15 control pancreases. Mean insulin concentration in solitary adenomas and in adenomas of patients with adenomatosis was higher than in control pancreases; however, in all but 1 patient the insulin concentration in neoplastic islet tissue was lower than in islet tissue of control pancreas, assuming islet volume is 1% of pancreas. The percentage of proinsulin was elevated in 52% of tumors. Adenoma insulin content correlated with increments of plasma insulin after tolbutamide administration. Insulin and proinsulin concentrations in pancreas uninvolved by tumor were not suppressed. Fasting plasma glucagon was elevated in patients with islet cell adenomatosis and in patients with islet cell carcinoma some of whom had multiple endocrine adenomatosis. The mean concentration of glucagon in tumors was lower than in control pancreases. Elevated concentration of gastrin was found in some adenomas. The data indicate: 1) insulin-secreting islet cell tumors have decreased storage capacity for insulin, 2) elevated concentration of proinsulin in tumors may be due to decreased capacity to store insulin and in some to decreased conversion of proinsulin to insulin as well, 3) tolbutamide stimulates the exaggerated release of a relatively constant fraction of insulin stored in adenomas. 4) solitary adenomas may contain excess amounts of pancreatic hormones in addition to insulin, 5) elevated plasma glucagon in patients with organic hyperinsulinism may indicate malignancy, microadenomatosis or multiple endocrine adenoma syndrome, and 6) chronic hyperinsulinism and hypoglycemia due to adenoma do not suppress insulin and proinsulin content of uninvolved pancreas.'
'15402'	'Effects of acetylsalicylate on alkalinization, acid secretion and electrogenic properties in the isolated gastric mucosa.'	''	''	''	'The effects of acetylsalicylate (ASA) on the in vitro secretory and electrical properties of Necturus and Rana temporaria gastric mucosa have been studied. The gastric antrum alkalinized the luminal surface, while in the fundus it is likely that acidificaiton and alkalinization occur simultaneously and that net secretion is due to the dominance of one or other of these processes. The histamine H2  receptor antagonist Metiamide was used to inhibit acid secretion for studies on fundic alkalinization in Rana temporaria. Submucosal application of 3 mM ASA for 30 min markedly reduced alkalinization in the antrum and the frog fundus. Following removal of ASA there was only partial recovery of this secretion. The drug caused slight inhibtion of spontaneous acid secretion in Necturus fundus but not of histamine-stimulated acid secretion in the frog fundus. Following salicylate removal, the rate of acid secretion increased to a higher level than before administration in both tissues. There was a small flux of ASA across the mucosa which was greatest in the acid secreting frog fundus (4.38mumol cm-2 min-1) and least in the antrum (2.19 mumol cm-2 min-1). Esposure of the gastric mucosa to ASA was generally associated with a fall in transmucosal electric potential difference and short-circuit current together with an increase in electrical resistance. It is proposed that the greater sensitivity of alkalinization to ASA is responsible for the apparent increase in the rate of acid secretion which occured.'
'15595'	'Bioflavonoid regulation of ATPase and hexokinase activity in Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria.'	''	''	''	'(1) The mitochondrial ATPase (EC 3.6.1.3) Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria, was inhibited by D-glucose under physiological concentrations of ATP. The generation of ADP by the mitochondrial bound hexokinase, seems to be the reason for the D-glucose inhibitory effect. Reversal of the inhibitory effect of ADP on Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria ATPase by an ATP-regenerating system was achieved. (2) Dissociation of mitochondrial bound hexokinase from the mitochondria eliminated the inhibitory effect of D-glucose. Rebinding of the hexokinase to the mitochondria regenerated the D-glucose inhibitory effect on Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria ATPase. (3) Bioflavonoids such as quercetin inhibit the mitochondrial hexokinase activity, but do not change the mitochondrial ATPase activity of isolated Ehrlich ascites tumor cell mitochondria. (4) The inhibitory effect of bioflavonoids on mitochondrial bound hexokinase activity is shown to be dissociable from the ascites tumor cell mitochondria and seems to be associated with regulatory rather than catalitic sites of the enzyme.'
'15721'	'Interactions between "fever" proteins and normal serum proteins in febrile cancer patients.'	''	''	''	'When analyzed by cationic discontinuous electrophoresis in urea-containing polyacrylamide gels, plasma or serum from febrile individuals contains trace quanitites of five protein bands that are not recognizable in the blood of normal individuals. These proteins appear and disappear in parallel in sequential samples. Cerebrospinal fluid from febrile and nonfebrile individuals contains a protein band that is electrophoretically identical with only one of these proteins. Since the trace proteins migrate, in urea-containing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, as if they has molecular size of less than or equal to30,000 daltons, their absence from cerebrospinal fluid implies the existence, in vivo, of interactions between them and other serum proteins. Under nondissociating conditions, four of the bands appear to circulate in physical interaction with one another. In molecular sieve chromatography at neutral pH in lipid-free sera, the trace proteins have an approximate molecular size of 165,000 daltons; in lipemic sera they have a molecular weight of larger than or equal to200,000 daltons. Their behavior in gel filtration and in ion-exchange chromatography excludes extensive interaction with any of the following: immunoglobulin M, immunoglobulin G, alpha2-macroglobulin, haptoglobin, and albumin. Interactions between these and other serum proteins are reduced by high concentrations of urea and by low PH. The mechanisms responsible for the observed protein-protein associations would appear to include electrostatic attraction, hydrogen bonding, and weak hydrophobic interaction.'
'16315'	'Hyperthermic effect on exponential and plateau ascites tumor cells in vitro dependent on environmental pH1.'	''	''	''	''
'16783'	'Localization of hypophysiotropic neurohormones by assay of sections from various brain areas.'	''	''	''	'The results of studies of the localization of the hypothalamic hypophysiotropic factors based on their direct determination in sections or nuclear punches are described. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone was found in high concentrations in the median eminence-arcuate nucleus complex, in lower concentrations in the mediobasal zone of the preoptic area. In addition to these hypothalamic sites, it is present in all four periventricular organs, especially in the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis. Thyrotropin releasing hormone has a widespread distribution. High concentrations are in the median eminence, arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, and anterior part of the ventromedial nucleus. Lower concentrations are in several other structures of the hypothalamus, preoptic area and septum, and low but measurable quantities are found in most of the structures of the brain. Somatostatin is also present in most structures of the central nervous system, with highest concentrations in the median eminence, arcuate nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and periventricular nucleus. There are indications that the ventromedial nucleus or its immediate vicinity contains growth hormone releasing factor. Prolactin releasing activity was present in the median eminence and mediobasal parts of the anterior hypothalamus, whereas prolactin inhibitory activity was in the dorsolateral parts of the anterior hypothalamus and/or preoptic area.'
'16936'	"The diverse effects of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine on enzyme activities in cultured H35 hepatoma cells."	''	''	''	'Reuber (H35) hepatoma cells were grown in medium containing 10(-5)M bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), which was incorporated into their DNA. Cell growth rate was unaffected by BrdU for the first two generations, after which it was reduced by about 50%. The effect of BrdU incorporation on the activities of several enzymes with rapid turnover rates was examined to test the hypothesis that the synthesis of such enzymes will be preferentially inhibited by BrdU. Tyrosine amino-transferase (TAT) activity decreased by 70% within two generations whereas thymidine kinase activity remained at control values. PEP carboxykinase activity was unchanged during the first generation in BrdU-containing medium but, during the second, its activity increased by at least 30%. Ornithine decarboxylase levels decreased by about 50% only after two generations in the presence of BrdU. There appeared to be no simple relationship between turnover rates and the effect of BrdU on enzyme activity. Incorporation of BrdU was found to inhibit the induction of both TAT and PEP carboxykinase by dexamethasone and to enhance the inhibition of cell growth by this steroid. These results are discussed with respect to possible mechanisms of gene expression and development in both normal and neoplastic cells.'
'17085'	'Expression of hormonally induced tyrosine transaminase in normal, host liver and three Morris hepatomas.'	''	''	''	'Cytoplasmic tyrosine transaminase (L-tyrosine: 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase, EC 2.6.1.5) was partially purified from normal, host liver and three Morris hepatomas and subsequently resolved by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels. Enzyme activity was detected histochemically in situ on the gels. Seven enzymatically active forms were detected in normal liver. The presence of growing hepatomas altered significantly the expression of this enzyme. Only one, two and four activity peaks were detected in the host liver of animals with highly (most liver-like), well and poorly (least liver-like) differentiated hepatomas, respectively. Similarly, only one, four and six peaks were detected, respectively, in highly, well and poor differentiated hepatomas.'
'17095'	'[Diagnosis of hepatic metastasis by enzymatic assay. Value of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase].'	''	''	''	'Variations in serum enzyme levels were studied in 50 patients suffering from various types of neoplasm, 25 of whom had hepatic metastases. In the absence of any associated hepato-biliary or pancreatic disorder, gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase would appear to be a reliable test in 96 % of cases. It represents a factor of assessment which merits a place in the prognostic study of all types of neoplasia.'
'17340'	'Secretin-stimulated serum gastrin levels in hyperparathyroid patients from families with multiple endocrine adenomatosis type I.'	''	''	''	'Twenty-three patients with hyperparathyroidism from six families with the multiple endocrine adenomatosis (MEA) I-syndrome were tested by secretin provocation. In nine cases this led to increases in serum gastrin ranging from 298 to 13 300 pg/ml, whereas the maximum rise in gastrin in the other 14 patients was 32 pg/ml. In all nine patients with marked gastrin responses to secretin, the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome was diagnosed by gastric acid hypersecretion and large increases in gastrin after calcium administration. Six of these nine patients had, at most, minor postprandial rises in gastin and two had demonstrable tumors. In 34 normal subjects, 23 nonaffected members of families with MEA I-syndrome, and 42 patients with various diseases the maximum gastrin response to secretin was 21 pg/ml. We conclude that secretin provocation is helpful in the diagnosis of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, especially when basal serum gastrin levels are only slightly elevated.'
'17375'	'Blood serum peptidases in patients with ovarian carcinoma treated with Ledakrin.'	''	''	''	'The authors observed changes in activity of leucine amino-peptidase (E.C. 3.4.1.1--LAP), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (F.C 2.3.2.2--GGTP) and Co++-activated acylase in blood serum of patients with ovarian carcinoma, with or without ascites, treated with Ledakrin (1-nitro-9-[3-dimethylaminopropylamino] acridine). It was stated that the activities of LAP and GGTP increased during the treatment and during tumor progression. The level of Co++-activated acylase increased only slightly during the treatment and therefore, the determination of this enzyme appeared to be of no use in monitoring the therapy of ovarian carcinoma.'
'17467'	'Some new approaches to potential test systems for drugs against prostatic cancer.'	''	''	''	'We have previously reported on test systems, based on 5alpha-reductase (5alpha-RA) and arginase activities and steroid deposition in animal prostates, potentially useful in screening drugs possibly effective in cancer of the prostate. Recently, we have concentrated on the development of other in vivo and in vitro systems which may prove of further value in testing such drugs. These systems include the following: (a) The effects of drugs on 5alpha-RA activity in human and animal non-malignant and human cancerous prostatic tissues in organ culture. The parameters necessary for the maintenance of optimal 5alpha-RA in such explants have been determined, and it has been shown that certain agents (estramustine phosphate, progesterone, estradiol-17beta) can inhibit 5alpha-RA under in vitro conditions, pointing to the potential use of such an approach in screening various cytostatic agents. In addition, 65Zn deposition, the histology, and the androgen metabolism in such tissues in organ culture are being determined as additional parameters. (b) The deposition of 65Zn in the rat dorsolateral gland, particularly as affected by prolactin and testosterone, and the effects of chemotherapeutic agents on such deposition. Methotrexate and CCNU have been shown to be potent inhibitors of 65Zn deposition in the dorsolateral gland. The parameters related to zinc metabolism in the prostate are being further investigated. (c) The demonstration of receptors for estrogens (estradiol-17beta, diethylstilbestrol) in the prostate of the baboon. The various parameters related to the specificity of such receptors have been established. The development and standardization of these approaches, some facets of which are reported in the present publication, may prove them to be more sensitive, specific, and optimal than other systems and should afford an opportunity to test various combinations of drugs potentially useful in cancer of the prostate with relative speed, efficacy, and ease of manipulation.'
'17836'	'Activation of melanoma tyrosinase by a cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in a cell-free system.'	''	''	''	''
'18020'	'Active alkalinization by amphibian gastric fundic mucosa in vitro.'	''	''	''	'Gastric fundic mucosae in vitro from four species of frog and Necturus secrete HCO-3 at a steady-state rate of 0.25-0.55  microneq-cm-2-h-1 which corresponds to 5-10% of maximal H+ secretion. Net alkalinization was quantitated in mucosae with spontaneously resting H+ secretion or in mucosae inhibited by histamine H2-receptor antagonists or SNC-. HCO-3 secretion was inhibited by DNP (10(-4) M), CN- (10(-2) M), or anoxia. Acetazolamide inhibited alkalinization at 10(-2) M when added to the nutrient side and at 10(-4) M on the luminal side. Carbachol (10(-4) M) and DBcGMP (10(-4) M) stimulated alkalinization and caused a transient rise in the transmucosal PD; DBcAMP (10(-3) M) was without effect. An almost identical secretion occurred spontaneously in antral mucosae and was insensitive to histamine (10(-5) M). Occurrence in both antral and fundic mucosa suggests that active alkalinization is a property of gastric surface epithelial cells. Gastric alkalinization may protect the luminal surface of the mucosa from the damaging effects of acid and contribute to the continuous removal of H+ ions from gastric contents.'
'18278'	'Metabolic response to total parenteral nutrition in cancer patients.'	''	''	''	'In order to evaluate the metabolic response of nutritionally deprived cancer patients to parenteral nutrition, metabolic parameters including glucose turnover, oxidation, and Cori cycle activity were measured in eight patients before and during short-term (5 to 10 days) i.v. nutrition, with solutions containing amino acids and hypertonic glucose. Before parenteral nutrition, five patients had essentially normal glucose turnover, oxidation, and Cori cycle activity, whereas three patients had moderately increased glucose turnover and markedly increased Cori cycle activity. In response to parenteral nutrition, plasma glucose, insulin, and venous lactate concentration increased and free fatty acid decreased. The percentage of respiratory CO2 from glucose oxidation and the rate of oxidation increased. CO2 production increased, whereas O2 consumption was essentially unchanged. Respiratory quotient rose to greater than 1.0. Endogenous glucose production and high basal Cori cycle activity were decreased. Total parenteral nutrition was judged clinically beneficial in five patients, whereas one patient was unchanged. Deleterious responses, including moderate lactic acidemia, occurred in two of three patients with elevated basal Cori cycle activity.'
'18282'	"Weekly methotrexate-calcium leucovorin rescue: effect of alkalinization on nephrotoxicity; pharmacokinetics in the CNS; and use in CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma."	''	''	''	"Urinary alkalinization with oral sodium bicarbonate has decreased the incidence of acute nephrotoxicity and subsequent myelotoxicity in 18 adults receiving high-dose methotrexate with calcium leucovorin rescue (MTX-LCV) weekly in doses of 1-7.5 g/m2. Close monitoring of 24-hour serum creatinine and MTX levels can predict patients at risk for serious toxicity. By a prompt (24-36 hours) increase in the LCV dose rate, hematologic and biochemical evidence of myelosuppression has been prevented. Kinetic parameters in serum and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were studied in two patients following iv injection of 3 and 7.5 g/m2 respectively. Lumbar CSF MTX concentrations greater than 1 muM are achieved. The half-life of MTX in the CSF (11.95 hours) is twice as long as the serum half-life. In the presence of carcinomatous meningitis, further delay in the clearance of MTX from the CSF was seen. With weekly MTX-LCV, there have been four objective responses in six patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in CNS relapse, including complete regression in two. It is suggested that therapeutic concentrations can be achieved in the central nervous system following MTX-LCV."
'18416'	'Pituitary and ovarian response to acute stimulation with LH-RH in normal and anovulatory women.'	''	''	''	'The LH FSH estradiol and progesterone responses to acute stimulation with LH-RH were studied in 12 normal women with ovulatory cycles (4 in the initial follicular phase, 4 in the mid-follicular phase and 4 in the late follicular phase) and in two castrated women, two under hormonal contraception, two with ovarian amenorrhea, twelve with central amenorrhea of no detectable origin (6 with normal and 6 with low basal gonadotrophins), eleven anovulatory patients with pseudomenstruation, two with anorexia nervosa, and two with pituitary amenorrhea. Each woman received a rapid i.v. injection of 100 microgram synthetic LH-RH at 9:00 a.m. Serum levels of LH, FSH, estradiol and progesterone were determined by radioimmunoassay in samples collected before and 60, 120, 240 and 480 minutes after injection. The findings were : 1) A significant rise in estradiol and progesterone levels, in addition to LH and FSH elevation, in normal women; 2) A lack of ovarian steroid response in the castrated women and in ovarian amenorrheas, which suggests that the source of steroid response to stimulation is not extragonadal; 3) Significant differences in the responses of the four hormones to LH-RH in the women with central amenorrhea in comparison with the normal group with great variability of results; the steroid response in the presence of a positive LH response might correlate with the severity and/or prognosis of the disorder, a point deserving further study; 4) In anovulatory women with pseudomenstruation, LH responses for the most part normal, and particularly, progesterone responses.'
'18469'	'Human thymidylate kinase. Purification, characterization, and kinetic behavior of the thymidylate kinase derived from chronic myelocytic leukemia.'	''	''	''	'Thymidylate kinase derived from the blast cells of human chronic myelocytic leukemia was purified 2186-fold to near homogeneity by means of alcohol precipitation, alumina-Cgamma gel fractionation, calcium phosphate gel fraction, ultrafiltration, and affinity column chromatography. The molecular weight was estimated by glycerol gradient centrifugation to be 50,000. This enzyme had an optimal activity at pH 7.1 and required a divalent cation in order to catalyze the reaction. Mg2+ and Mn2+ were found to be the preferential divalent cations. The activation energy was estimated to be 19.1 kcal/mol at pH 7.2. Initial velocity study suggested that the reaction followed a sequential mechanism. Mg2+ ATP had a Km of 0.25 mM and dTMP had a Km of 40 micrometer. The enzyme was unstable even at 4 degrees. In the presence of ATP or dTMP the enzyme maintained its activity. Purine triphosphate nucleosides were found to be better phosphate donors than the pyrimidine triphosphate nucleosides. ATP and dATP had a lower Km and a higher Vmax than GTP and dGTP. dTMP was the only preferred phosphate receptor among all the monophosphate nucleotides tested dTTP and IdUTP competed with both substrates and inhibited the reaction with a Ki of 0.75 mM and 1.1 mM, respectively.'
'19040'	'Dihydrofolate reductase from a resistant subline of the L1210 lymphoma. Purification by affinity chromatography and ultraviolet difference spectrophotometric and circular dichroic studies.'	''	''	''	''
'19180'	'Bile lysosomal enzymes: characteristics and pathological significance for various hepatobiliary disorders.'	''	''	''	'The activities of several glycosidases (beta-galactosidase, beta-glucosidase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase) were demonstrated in human bile. The enzyme activities are increased about 100 times after exclusion of bile salts and other small molecular compounds by Sephadex G-50 gel filtration. The use of 4-methylumbelliferyl derivatives as substrates was useful as measurement of the bile enzyme activities are not altered in the presence of bile pigments. Enzyme characteristics of bile glycosidases were determined: pH optimum and isoelectric point. The bile glycosidase activities were also measured in various hepatobiliary disorders (cholelithiasis, cancer of gallbladder, acute hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and fatty liver). The glycosidase activities in bile from patients with liver diseases, as well as with cholelithiasis, were generally decreased. Isoelectric focusing patterns of biliary glycosidases were similar for specimens from patients with hepatobiliary disorders as compared to normal.'
'19331'	'Effect of caerulein on gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and alkaline phosphatase in the duodenal juice in chronic pancreatitis.'	''	''	''	'During infusion of caerulein, the output of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and biliary alkaline phosphatase is significantly more increased in chronic pancreatitis patients than in normal subjects. The presence of the gall-bladder is necessary to observe this effect of caerulein. It is not related to the discharge of large amounts of both enzymes by the diseases pancreas.'
'19380'	'The activity and distribution of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (y-GT) in human lung cancers serially transplanted in nude mice.'	''	''	''	'Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (y-GT) activity and distribution were investigated in different types of human lung cancers (three epidermoid carcinomas, one large cell carcinoma) which were maintained by serial transplantation in nude mice. All transplanted tumour fragments were positive for the enzyme. In the epidermoid carcinomas, y-GT levels were related to the degree of tumour differentiation. Enzyme activity in tumour fragments was always higher than that found in normal adult human lung tissue, and was, in general, maintained throughout the transplantation series.'
'19639'	'L-asparaginase--antileukemia agent.'	''	''	''	'This paper describes the most recent development in the field of biosynthesis of L-Asparaginase by means of various culture, purification by Column Chromatography, informations of the Catabolite repression of L-Asparaginase and its metabolism in mycobacteria. The separation, purification studies, idea about the effect of different PH on activity, quaternary structure and the effect of specific antibodies on catalytic activity of L-Asparaginase is discussed. This material shows the role of L-Asparaginase in acute lymphocytic leukemia.'
'19740'	'Defective organization of actin in cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with inherited adenocarcinoma.'	''	''	''	'In the cytoplasm of well-spread cultured normal fibroblasts, actin is organized into a network of cables that run the length of the cell just inside the adherent cell membrane. A diffuse matrix replaces the cables in fibroblasts that have become tumorigenic as a result of oncogenic transformation. We have found a similar disruption in actin organization in cultured skin fibroblasts (passage 6-10) obtained by biopsy from patients with the inherited colonic cancer, adenomatosis of the colon and rectum (ACR). Because ACR is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, about half the children of ACR patients will develop colon cancer, but they typically remain asymptomatic until at least the second decade of life. Actin distribution within cultured cells from children of ACR patients was identical either to that seen in cultured cells from normal persons or to that seen in cultured cells from ACR patients. The two different patterns were independent of age, sex, drug treatment, or infections of the donors. Apparently, this class of colonic carcinoma is accompanied by a systemic aberration in the organization of fibroblast cytoplasm, and this aberration can be detected by immunofluorescent localization of actin within cultured skin fibroblasts, prior to manifestation of any colonic symptoms.'
'19945'	'Evaluation of research on control of prolactin secretion.'	''	''	''	'At least three substances have been reported to be present in the hypothalamus that can inhibit prolactin release, namely a PIF, catecholamines and acetylcholine. At least four substances have been reported to be present in the hypothalamus that can stimulate prolactin release, namely PRF, TRH, serotonin and prostaglandins. Neither the existence of a distinctive PIF or PRF in the hypothalamus can be considered as definitely established. The predominant action of the mammalian hypothalamus on prolactin release is inhibitory under most conditions, and is stimulatory in avian species. In addition to control by the hypothalamus, several hormones and drugs can act directly on the pituitary to alter prolactin release. The interrelationships of these agents within and without the hypothalamus on prolactin secretion are complex, and there are many questions about their mode of action. Studies on the regulation of prolactin secretion have resulted in development of many methods for either increasing or decreasing release of this important hormone, and thereby have provided opportunities for influencing lactation, growth of mammary and pituitary tumors and other tissues responsive to prolactin.'
'20013'	'Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland.'	''	''	''	'Out of the discovery of concurrent multiple endocrine neoplasms has evolved the concept of multiple endocrine adenomatosis (MEA1 and MEA2). Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland is the most constant facet of MEA2 and is derived from C-cells of the neural crest. These cells, resembling parafollicular cells of lower animals, elaborate calcitonin which acts as a sensitive signal of the presence of the tumor. Ninety per cent of MCT occurs sporadically; in 10% the tumor presents as an atuosomal dominant trait. Other endocrinopathies, especially pheochromocytomas, are present in 70% of cases. The lesions are "cold" on iodine radioisotope scan. On microscopic examination, the appearance of amyloid is characteristic. Regional lymph node metastasis occurs early. The tumor deserves appropriate aggressive management. Surgical therapy should begin early and vigorously with the minimum procedure being total thyroidectomy. Frequent lymph node metastasis speaks for the need for regional neck dissection extended into the superior mediastinum. The search for, and the treatment of, the frequently associated endocrinopathies is essential. Pheochromocytoma must be suspected and eradicated before treatment of the thyroid tumor. A genetic workup should be included.'
'20027'	'Bradshaw lecture, 1976. Thyroid medullary carcinoma.'	''	''	''	'The main characteristics of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid are its non-follicular histological appearance, resulting from its origin from the parafollicular C cells, its secretion of calcitonin, providing a relatively simple diagnostic test, and its equal sex incidence, in contrast to all other diseases of the thyroid. Sporadic cases are seen and it occurs in familial groups, with autosomal dominant inheritance, when it is associated with phaeochromocytoma and parathyroid hyperplasia to form the second type of multiple endocrine adenomatosis (MEA2). These last features make it necessary in every case of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid to examine other members of the family and to investigate the possibility of concomitant adrenal and parathyroid disease. The priorities of treatment when these are present and the indications for total thyroidectomy are discussed.'
'20227'	'Production of calcitonin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, and beta-melanocyte-stimulating hormone in tumors derived from amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation cells.'	''	''	''	'The tumor production of human calcitonin (CT) was examined by radioimmunoassay, and it was found that 50 of 85 (59%) tumor tissues collected at random contained immunoreactive CT. These tumors were grouped as to whether they were derived from the amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation (APUD) series. The group that was derived from APUD cells showed appreciable amounts of CT in 30 of 31 (97%) of these tumors or in 20 of 21 (95%) when the medullary carcinomas of the thyroid were excluded. However, of the non-APUD group of tumors only 20 of 54 (37%) were found to contain CT, so that the difference between these two groups was highly significant (p less than 0.001). Of the tumors with ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone-melanocyte-stimulating hormone production, 12 of 14 were shown to contain CT. These data indicate that CT is a common product of the APUD tumors and that tumor production of CT is often associated with that of adrenocorticotropic hormone and beta-melanocyte-stimulating hormone.'
'20414'	'Etiology, clinical features and prognosis in secondary amenorrhea.'	''	''	''	'A clinical investigation of 356 patients with secondary amenorrhea revealed that 95% of patients with postpill amenorrhea and 56% of patients with anorexia nervosa recovered in 6 years. The corresponding recovery rates for patients with psychogenic amenorrhea and amenorrhea following self-induced weight loss were 72% for both groups, and in patients with the amenorrhea-galactorrhea syndrome and idiophatic functional amenorrhea the recovery rates at 6 years were 64 and 61% respectively. Unlike the other groups with functional amenorrhea, patients with the amenorrhea-galactorrhea syndrome had impaired ovarian responsiveness to exogenous gonadotropins. Bromocriptine treatment resulted in disappearance of the galactorrhea and restoration of the menses and/or ovulation in nine of 18 patients; of these three became pregnant. The effect of bromocriptine did not persist for long after treatment ceased, and permanent recovery was recorded only in four patients. The group with functional amenorrhea included 34 patients who wished to become pregnant. Gonadotropin treatment was successful in 20 patients, clomiphene-hCG in two, tamoxifen in two, bromocriptine in two, and combined bromocriptine and clomiphene in one. Thus, the overall pregnancy rate in patients with functional amenorrhea was 79%. The groups with ovarian amenorrhea inclutients with assumed ovarian failure responded to large doses of exogenous gonadotropins by ovulation and three became pregnant. Ovarian wedge resection was ineffective in all five cases with polycystic ovaries, but two patients became pregnant after treatment with clomiphene and chorionic gonadotropin, and one with exogenous gonadotropins.'
'21041'	"Value of alkaline phosphatase, 5'-nucleotidase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, and glutamate dehydrogenase activity measurements (single and combined) in serum in diagnosis of metastasis to the liver."	''	''	''	"We assessed, in 98 patients with cancer, the diagnostic value of measuring serum alkaline phosphatase, 5'-nucleotidase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, and glutamate dehydrogenase activities as an aid to detection of liver metastases. All four enzymes showed diagnostic value, but 5'-nucleotidase appeared to have the greatest. It showed the lowest false-positive results (7.4%) with the highest predictive value of a positive test (85.7%) and agreement (81.3%).. gamma-Glutamyltransferase showed the lowest proportion of false-negative results (2.8%), but was the least specific 35% false-positive results). Analysis of various test combinations showed that the best agreement (77.5%) was obtained when the patients were divided into those who had no or only one abnormal test result, and those who had two or more abnormal test results. However, this was not better than the agreement for 5' nucleotidase alone (81.3%). The agreement of 5'-nucleotidase and gamma-glutamyltransferase (i.e., both tests were positive or negative) was excellent (91.4%), but such agreement included only 67% of the patients with liver metastases."
'21485'	'[Specificity of glutamine metabolism in pre-tumorous diseases and cancer of the human stomach].'	''	''	''	'Content of free glutamine and the activity of glutamine synthetase and glutamine transaminase were studied in practically healthy persons and in patients with chronic atrophic gastritis, ulcerous disease, polyposis and with gastric carcinoma. The enzymatic activity was estimated in the areas of ulcerous impairment, of polypous vegetation of malignant neoplasm as well as in mucous membrane out of the impaired zone and in whole blood of all the patients studied. The tissues for biochemical tests were obtained by the directed gastrobiopsy. Content of glutamine was decreased in blood of patients with gastric carcinoma and increased in mucous membrane adjacent to the malignant tissue. Occurrence of the glutamine transaminase activity in the tissue areas studied was due to the specific glutamine metabolism during pretumoral diseases and gastric carcinoma, whereas the unimpaired gastric mucosa did not have the distinct enzymatic activity.'
'21785'	"[Treatment of peptic ulcer in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome with histamine H2-receptor antagonists (author's transl)]."	''	''	''	'Histamine H2-receptor antagonists metiamide and cimetidine were used in the treatment of severe peptic ulceration in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The ulcerations were completely healed in all four patients after treatment lasting from six weeks to four-and-a-half-months. Two patients developed recurrent ulcer after the treatment had stopped, but responded to a second course. One patient developed hepatitis B during cimetidine treatment and it is possible that the course of the hepatitis was unfavourable affected by cimetidine. But no other side effects were noted nor was there a significant change in basal serum-gastrin concentration or an increase in H+ secretion. Total gastrectomy remains the treatment of choice in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, but cimetidine should be considered if the patient refuses operation or operation is not feasible because of a poor general state.'
'21829'	'Estimation of serum acid proteases at pH 1.8 and pH 3.5 in patients with duodenal ulcer, gastric ulcer and gastric carcinoma.'	''	''	''	"Using a simple hemoglobin method on the basis of Anson-Mirsky's method, acid protease levels in serum were measured at pH 1.8 (pepsin) and pH 3.5 (gastricsin) in 18 healthy controls and 14 patients with duodenal ulcer, 19 patients with gastric ulcer and 18 patients with gastric cancer. Though acid protease activity in pH 1.8 in duodenal ulcer has a tendency to show a little higher level than healthy controls, there is no significant difference in acid protease levels between controls and each of three diseases."
'22215'	'Enzyme histochemical study on hepatoma--the relation between enzyme activity and histological type.'	''	''	''	'The activities of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP), alkaline phosphatase (A-p), and leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) were examined in 18 cases of hepatomas. The activity of gamma-GTP was most remarkable in the hepatoma consisting of small to medium-sized tumor cells showing the least atypism. The enzyme activity found in the type composed of large tumor cells resembled that of normal liver and was considered to be the most mature form of the neoplasm. This enzyme was not found in the immature type composed of small typical tumor cells. A-P activity was seen in only a few cases of hepatoma; conspicuous in one case showing immature features and sporadically in one case with florid histological pattern. The activity of this enzyme could not be confirmed in the type demonstrating marked gamma-GTP activity. LAP activity was noted in the majority of cases, especially marked in the medium-sized tumor cells, but there was hardly any connection between this enzyme and histological type. In general, the cases demonstrating positive gamma-GTP activity tended to show LAP activity. Although the activity of gamma-GTP and that of A-p usually showed an inverse relation, all three enzymes demonstrated almost equal activity in the type showing a florid histological pattern.'
'22304'	'H2-Histamine receptor blocking agents in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Experience in seven cases and implications for long-term therapy.'	''	''	''	'H2-Histamine receptor blocking agents metiamide and cimetidine were assessed in seven patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (serum gastrin greater than 300 microgram/ml, basal acid output greater than 15 meq/h, ratio of basal acid output to maximal acid output greater than 0.5). Intravenous or oral administration of the drugs lowered acid secretion by at least 70% in all cases. Subsequent treatment of six patients for 3 to 15 months (oral therapy) and one patient for 1 month (intravenous therapy) showed that the drugs abolished symptoms in all seven, abolished diarrhea in five, allowed ulcer healing in six, and were well tolerated without adverse effects in seven. No patient failed to respond to the drug, although one died from tumor progression and two required total gastrectomy for complex reasons. The results indicate that patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome can be managed medically and, in light of current mortality trends, gain little from the extra risks attending total gastrectomy.'
'22554'	'Studies on human alpha-lactalbumin: radioimmunoassay measurements in normal human breast and breast cancer.'	''	''	''	'A sensitive and specific radioimmunoassay for human alpha-lactalbumin, a milk protein, has been developed in order to examine the effect of prolactin on the human breast in normal and diseased states. Samples of milk from nursing mothers and from men and women with galactorrhea were found to contain milligram concentrations of this protein. In serum, 8 of 25 normal men and 18 of 44 normal women had detectable concentrations of alpha-lactalbumin. Significantly higher levels of alpha-lactalbumin were found in 17 of 19 women during pregnancy who were not actively lactating. All nursing mothers were found to have distinctly elevated serum alpha-lactalbumin concentrations. In a group of 17 female patients with phenothiazine induced prolactin elevations (mean 29.4 ng/ml), the mean serum alpha-lactalbumin of 17.3 ng/ml was significantly higher than in normal female volunteers. Patients with gynecomastia were not noted to have elevated alpha-lactalbumin. In vitro, homogenates of normal breast and carcinoma tissue from the same individuals revealed that in 9 of 17 patients alpha-lactalbumin was present in higher concentrations in normal than in cancerous tissue. Overall, alpha-lactalbumin was found in 48.5% of homogenates and 41% of organ cultures of normal breast tissue from cancer patients. In contrast, it was present in only 19% of homogenates and 21% of cultures of carcinoma tissue, indicating that the cancer tissue may lose its ability to produce alpha-lactalbumin. Differences in biologic behavior were found in some tumors. In 2 cases homogenates of breast cancer tissue had much higher concentrations of alpha-lactalbumin than the normal tissue, and in 3 of 33 tumors studied in organ culture prolactin increased alpha-lactalbumin output.'
'22586'	'Inhibition of catecholamine synthesis and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase activation in pheochromocytoma cells by diphenylhydantoin.'	''	''	''	''
'23002'	'The significance of pH P isoenzymes of phosphomonoesterases in thyropathies and thyroid cancer.'	''	''	''	''
'23027'	'[Thiamine deficiency in chronic alcoholics. Value of pre- and postoperative treatment].'	''	''	''	'Thiamine deficiency in the chronic alcoholic would appear to have a triple origin: inadequate intake, absorption and utilisation. Its consequences are well known: peripheral neuropathy, WERNICKE and KORSAKOFF type encephalopathies and cardiac problems (with asystole at the extreme). The active principle of thiamine, TPP or cocarboxylase, is involved as a coenzyme of pyruvate decarboxylase and of alphaketoglutarate decarboxylase in the ocidative decarboxylation reactions of the Krebs cycle. TPP is involved as a coenzyme of transketolase in the transketolisation reactions of the pentose pathway. The stimation of transketolase demonstrates a deficiency in thiamine. Fourteen patients suffering from surgical ENT malignancies were involved in the present study. Seven patients received vitamin B therapy before and after the operation. The results showed a significant decrease in thiamine deficiency. Seven were used as controls and did not receive vitamin B therapy. Transketolase estimations showed and increase in the deficiency. Thiamine deficiency exists in the chronic alcoholic and may be corrected by the administration of B vitamins.'
'23385'	'Toxicity, radiation sensitivity modification, and metabolic effects of dehydroascorbate and ascorbate in mammalian cells.'	''	''	''	"Dehydroascorbate, an electron affinic metabolite of vitamin C, sensitized Ehrlich ascites tumor cells, in vivo, to radiation and was selectively toxic to V79 Chinese hamster lung cells under hypoxic conditions (without radiation). The radiosensitization may involve both the electron affinic nature of dehydroascorbate as well as its ability to oxidize the intracellular NAD(P)H and non-protein sulfhydryl. Dehydroascorbate's oxidation of NAD(P)H required higher concentrations than other sulfhydryl oxidants such as N-ethylmaleimide and diamide. The oxidation of NAD(P)H by dehydroascorbate could be reversed by glucose. Hypoxic cell radiosensitization of V79 cells in tissue culture by dehydroascorbate could not be easily demonstrated because of the rapid breakdown and appreciable cytotoxicity of the drug at high concentration. The cytotoxicity was found to occur with both high and low densities of V79 cells. With low cell densities small amounts of oxygen did not reduce the cytotoxicity of dehydroascorbate, but virtually eliminated the cytotoxicity of nitroaromatic electron affinic compounds (metronidazole and Ro-07-0582). The cytotoxicity to dense cell suspensions was found to depend upon the type of buffer included in the reaction medium. The maximum cytotoxicity was obtained in buffer free saline. The reduced form of dehydroascorbate, vitamin C, was found to be toxic only under aerobic conditions. The aerobic cytotoxicity could be prevented by the addition of catalase to the growth medium or by an increase in cell density, suggesting it was caused entirely by the production of H2O2 from the oxidation of vitamin C."
'23517'	'[Value of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase assay for detection of hepatic metastasis].'	''	''	''	''
'23644'	'Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase: its clinical significance.'	''	''	''	'Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) level was estimated in 132 patients with different liver diseases (chronic persistent and chronic active hepatitis, postnecrotic cirrhosis, chronic alcholic hepatitis and alcoholic cirrhosis, cholestasis syndrome, fatty liver, Gilbert disease) and malignancies with and without liver involvement. The gamma-GT levels were compared with the values for serum bilirubin, transaminases (GOT, GPT) and alkaline phosphatase in the same patients. gamma-GT values were normal in chronic persistent hepatitis and increased in chronic active hepatitis. Very high activities were measured in chronic alcoholic cirrhosis in contrast to postnecrotic cirrhosis. gamma-GT proved to be more sensitive than alkaline phosphate as an index of cholestasis and liver involvement in malignancies. It is suggested that gamma-GT activity offers valuable aid in differential diagnostics of liver-diseases. gamma-GT being an inducible enzyme, its activity may be raised by enzyme inducing drugs also in subjects without liver disease.'
'23884'	'In vivo release of gastrin into human gastric juice.'	''	''	''	'The release of antral gastrin has been examined in human subjects by infusing saline and albumin into their stomachs. Immunoreactive gastrin (IRG) was present in fasting serum but not in fasting gastric juice. Intragastric infusions of saline and albumin induced small but significant (P less than 0.05) rises in the serum concentrations of IRG. There was no significant difference between the magnitude of the serum gastrin responses to these two stimuli. The stimuli induced a rise in the luminal concentration of IRG which was sixfold greater than that in the serum concentration of IRG. The response to albumin was significantly greater than the response to saline (P less than 0.05). The IRG in gastric juice was chromatographically similar to heptadecapeptide gastrin. The stimuli also released IRG in patients with duodenal ulcers. The magnitude of the release into serum and gastric juice in these patients was significantly reduced by antrectomy (P less than 0.05).'
'23942'	'Arylsulfatases in bilharziasis.'	''	''	''	'Arylsulfatase A and B in urine have been estimated in 18 normal subjects and 50 bilharziasis patients. The bilharziasis patients were divided into two groups according to the type of infeciton. Those with bilharziasis haematobian type of infection and those with the bilharziasis mansoni type. Each group was further subdivided into subgroups according to the severity and progress of the disease. The activities of arylsulfatase A and B were significantly elevated in all the groups of patients studied and it is evident that there is a progressive increase with the progress of the disease in both types of bilharziasis infections (the haematobian and mansoni types). Liver dysfunction consequent of bilharzial infestation appears to take part in the mechanism of induction of the bilharzial bladder cancer.'
'24155'	'H2-receptor antagonists in perspective.'	''	''	''	'Cimetidine, like its predecessors burinamide and metiamide, has been shown in vitro to be a specific competitive histamine H2-receptor antagonist. In vivo, it is a potent inhibitor of histamine-stimulated gastric acid secretion in animals and man after both intravenous and oral administration. Doses sufficient to inhibit gastric secretions are without measureable effects on other physiologic systems. The main indication for cimetidine is in the treatment of duodenal ulcer and of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Useful indications are treatment of gastric ulcer and pnacreatic insufficiency. Possible indications are prevention of gastrointestinal bleeding and treatment of peptic esophagitis. The neutrophil toxicity seen with metiamide has so far not been demonstrated with cimetidine; side effects with cimetidine have generally been trivial. In the future, H2-receptor antagonists are likely to become key therapeutic agents in diseases in which gastric acid-pepsin secretion plays a pathogenetic role.'
'24311'	'[The significance of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase determination in the differentiation of icterus of various etiologies].'	''	''	''	'In a group of 29 patients with mechanical icterus and a control group of 38 patients (acute, chronic hepatitis and hyperbilirubinemia) there have been followed up alkaline phosphatase, leucinaminopeptidase and gammaglutamil transpeptidase activities aiming to evaluate the value of gamma GT in differentiation of icterus of various etiology. Comparing the values of the examined cholestase enzymes in patients of obstructive icterus it could be seen that gamma GT was positive in the largest percentage of the diseased, (69,6%), then APH (89,7%) AND LAP (86,3%). Gamma GT has shown to be selective test for obstruction of hepatobiliary tract but it is not selective for discovering cause of obstruction. It can be explained by the fact that activity of gamma GT could be found both in mechanical icterus caused by calculosis or tumours (with a very high activity) and in patients with hepatitis with cholestatic component, although in the decresed activity.'
'24319'	'Evaluation of the usefulness of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels in the management of haematological neoplasia.'	''	''	''	"The levels of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and, when appropriate, alkaline phosphatase (AP) and 5'-nucleotidase (NTD) have been measured as a routine in 276 patients with malignant haematological diseases during a 26-month trial period. GGT levels add no prognostic information to the routine haematological surveillance of leukaemia. Polychemotherapy does not appear to be an inducer of liver drug-metabolising microsomal enzymes. Polycythaemia rubra vera, myelofibrosis and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia may cause little change in GGT, AP and NTD levels despite marked hepatomegaly. A raised GGT in Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin lymphoma is generally associated with active and widespread disease, but not necessarily a sign of malignant tissue in the liver. The elevations of GGT in myeloma may be secondary to liver infiltration though this group merits further detailed study."
'24338'	'H2 receptor antagonists.'	''	''	''	'The uses of the histamine H2 receptor antagonists (H2 antagonists) in the management of peptic ulcer disease and the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome are reviewed. Drugs included in the discussion are burimamide, metiamide and cimetidine. The secretion and the pharmacology of the H2 antagonists are described. A discussion of the clinical use of the H2 receptor antagonists in the treatment of gastric hyperacidity and hypersecretory states, and the side effects encountered is presented. Cimetidine is effective in the treatment of duodenal ulcer, and its use appears promising in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and gastric ulceration.'
'24377'	'[Glucide intolerance and its pathogenic mechanisms during parenteral feeding].'	''	''	''	'Hyperglycaemia during parenteral alimentation occurs either as a result of an error in the supplies provided or as a result of diminished carbohydrate tolerance. The circumstances surrounding the development of carbohydrate intolerance are essentially : severe infections, major catabolic states, renal insufficiency, extensive burns, pancreatic problems and diabetes. From a pathogenic standpoint, there are two dominant elements : disturbances in hepatic gluconeogenesis and changes in insulin secretion and in resistance to insulin. The physiopathology is dominated by the risk of hyperosmolarity. Hypoglycaemia occurs most frequently as the result of a manit fest error : too sudded interruption of carbohydrate supplies or two high dosage of exogenous insulin.'
'24499'	'Relaxin, a male hormone? Immunocytological localization of a related antigen in the boar testis.'	''	''	''	'Convincingly demonstrated by immunocytological methods in females of several mammalian species, relaxin has not yet been localized in the male. Immunocytologically, a related antigen was identified in adult normal boar testes using and anti- [NIH P-relaxin/HSA] antiserum free of anti HSA Abs. A strong reaction was observed in interstitial cells, a weaker but very clear one in Sertoli cells. NIH P-relaxin and HC1-acetone extracts of either corpora lutea from pregnant sows or boar testes inhibited the immunofluorescence of the reactive structures in the boar testes as well as in ovaries of pregnant sows. Ethanol-acetone precipitates from boar rete testis or caudal epididymal fluids inhibited the reaction of interstitial and Sertoli cells, but this inhibition in the sow was limited only to degenerative ovarian structures, probably due to an insufficient level of inhibiting antigen in these two seminal fluids, in contrast with the very high concentration of relaxin in luteal cells of pregnant sows. Specific immunofluorescence was observed neither in ectopic testes of adult monocryptorchid boars (contrary to scrotal testes in these same animals) nor in testes of prepuberal pigs. The specificity and meaning of these results are discussed.'
'24815'	'Prolactin inhibiting activity of dopamine-free subcellular fractions from rat mediobasal hypothalamus.'	''	''	''	'In order to check the hypothesis of an identity of dopamine (DA) and prolactin inhibiting activity (PIF), their subcellular distribution was studied in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) and the striatum, which served as a control structure. PIF was tested both in vivo and on pituitary incubates. Fractions were also assayed after adsorption of their catecholamine content on alumina, as well as in presence of haloperidol or alpha-flupentixol, potent DA receptor inhibitors. In the MBH, PIF was evenly distributed in the 17,000 g supernatant (S2) and in the crude mitochondrial fraction (P2) which contains synaptosomes. PIF activity was completely removed by alumina adsorption of S2, but not of P2 in spite of an over 99.9% elimination of DA. In contrast, striatal PIF activity was detected only in P2, and disappeared completely upon alumina adsorption, thus indicating that, in this structure, it is entirely due to DA. Addition of haloperidol (10--5M) or alpha-flupentixol (10--6M) reduced PIF activity of crude MBH homogenates, but no longer affected it after alumina adsorption. Quantitative studies suggest that only half of the total MBH PIF activity is accounted for by DA. It is concluded that the MBH contains dopamine-free PIF, which, as already shown for several other neurohormones, is exclusively distributed in nerve-endings.'
'24892'	'pH threshold for release of secretin in normal subjects and in patients with duodenal ulcer and patients with chronic pancreatitis.'	''	''	''	''
'24912'	'Pathology of germ cell tumors of the testis.'	''	''	''	'Testicular germ cell tumors form a complex group of interrelated entities. Problems of nomenclature remain, but there does appear to be a close agreement between the major classifications in use. The identification of clinically useful markers for certain germ cell testicular tumors has provided a major impetus in this field. Information gained from the study of these markers has promoted an understanding of the histogenesis of germ cell tumors, has improved standard nomenclature, and has stimulated progress in patient care. Radioimmunoassay techniques are now frequently used to measure beta-human chorionic gonadotrophin and alpha-fetoprotein levels in evaluating the clinical course of patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors of the testis. It is hoped that the use of these markers will permit earlier detection of tumor recurrence, prompt treatment, and an improved survival rate. The knowledge of the production of alpha-fetoprotein by the human yolk sac has further refined tumor classification. It is against this general background that we have outlined the standard pathology of germ cell tumors of the testis.'
'24990'	'Hormonal induction of enzyme functions, cyclic AMP levels and AIB transport in Morris hepatomas and in normal liver systems.'	''	''	''	''
'24992'	'Abnormal dietary regulation of glutamine synthetase in Morris hepatomas.'	''	''	''	''
'25284'	'The transport of L-alanine by the hamster kidney cell line BHK-21-C13.'	''	''	''	'The uptake of L-alanine into BHK21-C13 cells in culture has been studied. This amino acid appears to be transported essentially via a relatively low affinity, high capacity, sodium ion dependent transport system. Inhibition studies using other amino acids or their analogues provided information about the specificity of this system. This alanine transport system was shown to exhibit a broad substrate specificity and appeared to be capable of transporting most naturally occurring neutral alpha-amino acids. Kinetic studies of the inhibition of L-alanine uptake also indicated the presence of a second neutral amino acid transport system capable of transporting this amino acid. However, it is unlikely that this second uptake system contributes greatly to L-alanine uptake. Inhibition of the uptake of L-leucine indicated that this transport system has a similar specificity to the "L"-system initially described for Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells.'
'25554'	'Bone marrow transplantation between mixed leukocyte culture reactive siblings.'	''	''	''	'Bone marrow transplantation from an HLA identical MLC reactive sibling has been performed in a patient with acute myelogenous leukemia resistant to drug treatment. Prompt engraftment was documented; however, the patient died of septicemia 34 days after transplant. Clinical manifestation of graft vs. host reaction was mild but was moderately strong expressed at autopsy tissue samples. Recurrence of persistence of leukemia was found at the time of death.'
'25649'	'The isolation and properties of a non-pepsin proteinase from human gastric mucosa.'	''	''	''	'1. A non-pepsin proteinase, proteinase 2, was successfully isolated free from pepsinogen (by repetitive chromatography on DEAE- and CM-celluloses) from the gastric mucosa of a patient with a duodenal ulcer and the uninvaded mucosa of a patient with a gastric adenocarcinoma. 2. Proteinases 1a and 1b, found in gastric adenocarcinoma, were not found in the gastic mucosa of these patients. 3. Proteinase 2 was shown to have an asymmetrical broad pH-activity curve with a maximum over the pH range 3.0-3.7. 4. Proteolytic activity of proteinase 2 was inhibited by pepstatin; the concentration of pepstatin giving 50% inhibition is of the order of 3nm. 5. Inhibition of proteolytic activity by carbenoxolone and related triterpenoids indicated that at pH 4.0 proteinase 2 possesses structural characteristics relating it to the pepsins and at pH 7.4 to the pepsinogens. 6. The sites of cleavage of the B-chain of oxidized insulin for proteinase 2 at pH 1.7 and pH 3.5 were shown to be similar to those previously established for human pepsin 3 and for the cathepsin E of rabbit bone marrow. 7. The non-pepsin proteinase 2 (cathepsin) of human gastric mucosa has properties more similar to cathepsin E than to the cathepsins D.'
'25665'	'Cell membrane enzymes: L-gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, leucine aminopeptidase, maltase and trehalase in normal and leukaemic lymphocytes.'	''	''	''	'Several cell-membrane enzymes, which serve functions in amino acid and sugar transport, were measured in peripheral blood lymphocytes from chronic B and T lymphocytic disorders, blast cells in acute leukaemias, and in normal lymphocytes from cord blood, peripheral blood of adults, tonsils and bone-marrow plasma cells in myelomatosis. The specific activities of L-gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, maltase and trehalase were low, as compared with those measured in normal blood lymphocytes, in the acute leukaemias and in the chronic B-cell disorders. In myelomatosis and in the chronic T-cell disorders, the specific activity of these three enzymes was in the normal range or above normal. The specific activity of leucine aminopeptidase was low in all the chronic B-cell disorders and in some of the lymphoblastic leukaemias. It was elevated in S\xe9zary syndrome cells but low in T-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. All four enzymes were lower than normal in cord blood lymphocytes and higher than normal in tonsils. These findings are discussed in relation to the patterns of lymphoid cell differentiation and maturation in normal tissues and in leukaemic states.'
'25754'	"[Surgery of pancreatic endocrine tumours in the German Federal Republic: results of a survey (author's transl)]."	''	''	''	'Within a ten-year scan (1967-1976) 207 insulinomas, 50 gastrinomas, 8 Verner-Morrison tumors, 5 glucagonomas and 12 endocrine pancreatic tumours with associated MEA syndrome (multiple endocrine adenomatosis) were treated surgically at various university hospitals (information obtained by questionnaire). Half of the insulinomas were treated by enucleation, one third by resection of the tail of the pancreas. Total gastrectomy was the procedure of choice in 80% of patients with gastrinoma, but sometimes pancreatic resection to remove the tumour was added. An new therapeutic concept of using histamine-H2 receptor antagonists for treating patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is discussed. In the eight patients with a Verner-Morrison syndrome removal of the tumour or distal pancreatic resection was the procedure of choice.'
'25828'	'Pathophysiological responses to meals in the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome: I. Paradoxical postprandial inhibition of gastric secretion.'	''	''	''	'The gastric acid, pepsin, and secretory volume output in response to a mixed meal were measured in six patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome caused by a gastrin-producing tumour proved subsequently at surgery. The patients were all normocalcaemic, and none had previous abdominal surgery. In four of the six patients, ingestion of the meal markedly inhibited the gastric secretory output, which decreased to below fasting levels, returning later to basal values. In two other patients, whose fasting acid output was considerably lower, the secretory output increased after the meal, but some inhibiton of gastric secretion was also apparent for variable intervals of time. The serum gastrin concentration in all patients remained essentially unchanged or increased after the meal. Two patients were restudied after successful removal of the duodenal gastrin-producing tumour, and in each the normal gastric secretory and gastrin-releasing responses were completely restored. Our studies suggest that, in patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome caused by a gastrinoma, physiological regulatory mechanisms triggered by food reduce the continuous stimulation of gastric secretion caused by their tumoural hypergastrinaemia.'
'26174'	'Increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity in patients with pancreatitis associated with type I and V hyperlipoproteinemia.'	''	''	''	'Oxyhemoglobin dissociation curves were performed from blood of subjects with pancreatitis associated with Type V and Type I hyperlipoproteinemia. The hemoglobin-oxygen affininty was markedly increased with P50 varying from 22.3 to 17.7 mmHg. As the hyperlipoproteinemia subsided the clinical and laboratory signs of pancreatic affection disappeared. The increased hemoglobin-oxygen affinity and decreased flow of red cells due to hyperchylomicronemia in the microcirculation may lead to tissue hypoxia, which may act as a precipitating injurious factor leading to pancreatitis during severe hyperlipemia.'
'26358'	'Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity of the synovial fluid. Kinetic and clinical study.'	''	''	''	'Inorganic pyrophosphatase activity has been partially characterized in joint fluid and determined in patients with sporadic and familial chondrocalcinosis and their controls. Optimal pH was established at 3.5 and Km values were estimated. Ca-2 and Mg-2 did not affect this activity whereas orthophosphate (Pi) strongly inhibited it. In the clinical study no significant differences were found among groups. This suggests that if a pyrophosphatase defect is present it might be localized in joint tissue and not be reflected in synovial fluid.'
'26473'	'[Gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase during cirrhosis and hepatoma in black Africans (apropos of 50 cases observed in Dakar)].'	''	''	''	''
'26484'	'A novel gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase in renal carcinoma in comparison with normal kidney enzyme.'	''	''	''	'A novel gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was found in a renal carcinoma tissue. This enzyme electrophoresed more quickly than that of normal kidney, but more slowly than normal liver enzyme. Their Rf values are 0.46, 0.33, and 0.52 for the renal carcinoma, normal kidney and normal liver enzyme, respectively. After treatment of the renal carcinoma and normal kidney enzyme with neuraminidase, the renal carcinoma gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase still electrophoresed slightly faster than that of normal kidney. The catalytic properties of the renal carcinoma gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase were almost the same as those of normal kidney except for molecular weight; the molecular weight for the renal carcinoma was estimated to be about 130 000, while that of normal kidney was about 90 000. These results may mean that the enzyme of the renal carcinoma is different from that of normal kidney in chemical constituents other than sialic acid. Of 10 patients with renal carcinoma examined electrophoretically, 5 posessed this novel enzyme in their renal carcinoma tissues.'
'26521'	'Prolactin and pituitary tumors.'	''	''	''	''
'26606'	'The pathophysiology of hyperprolactinemic states and the role of newer ergot compounds in their treatment.'	''	''	''	'Studies of prolactin secretion in humans have confirmed the concept, derived originally from animal investigations, that prolactin is predominantly controlled by tonic inhibition from the hypothalamus. The locus of action of dopamine and dopaminergic agents such as the ergot alkaloids inhibiting prolactin secretion appears to be primarily at the pituitary level, though a hypothalamic action to increase secretion of prolactin inhibitory factor may also contribute. Prolactin hypersecretion, through any of several possible mechanisms, is frequently but not always found in patients with galactorrhea. Recent studies have shown that hyperprolactinemia is considerably more common than was previously appreciated among patients without galactorrhea. It is present in at least two-thirds of all patients with pituitary tumors and in a significant minority of patients with secondary amenorrhea. Its clinical measurement in these conditions is therefore of considerable diagnostic importance. Whatever the pathophysiology of its production, hyperprolactinemia of all forms is responsive to treatment with the newer ergot alkaloids. The potential use of these agents for therapeutic purposes, particularly in the treatment of infertility, appears to be wider than was originally anticipated.'
'26690'	'Localization of D-amino acid oxidase on the cell surface of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.'	''	''	''	'The ultrastructural localization of D-amino acid oxidase (DAO) was studied cytochemically by detecting sites of hydrogen peroxide production in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs). Reaction product, which forms when cerous ions react with H2O2 to form an electron-dense precipitate, was demonstrated on the cell surface and within the phagosomes of phagocytically stimulated cells when D-amino acids were provided as substrate. Resting cells showed only slight activity. The competitive inhibitor D,L-2-hydroxybutyrate greatly reduced the D-amino acid-stimulated reaction while KCN did not. The cell surface reaction was abolished by nonpenetrating inhibitors of enzyme activity while that within the phagosome was not eliminated. Dense accumulations of reaction product were formed in cells which phagocytosed Staphylococcus aureus in the absence of exogenous substrate. No reaction product formed with Proteus vulgaris while an intermediate amount formed when Escherichia coli were phagocytosed. Variation in the amount of reaction product with the different bacteria correlated with the levels of D-amino acids in the bacterial cell walls which are available for the DAO of PMNs. An alternative approach utilizing ferricyanide as an electron acceptor was also used. This technique verified the results obtained with the cerium reaction, i.e., the DAO is located in the cell surface and is internalized during phagocytosis and is capable of H2O2 production within the phagosome. The present finding that DAO is localized on the cell surface further supports the concept that the plasma membrane is involved in peroxide formation in PMNs.'
'26872'	'Variable content of histaminase, L-dopa decarboxylase and calcitonin in small-cell carcinoma of the lung. Biologic and clinical implications.'	''	''	''	'To ascertain whether the content of endocrine markers is constant in small-cell carcinoma of the lung, levels of three markers of medullary thyroid carcinoma were studied in this tumor. Histaminase was increased in six of six primary tumors (three to 14,000 times), L-dopa decarboxylase in four of six (six to 30 times), and calcitonin in one of one (eight times) over levels in adjacent lung. Marker levels in mediastinal metastases reflected those in primary tumors in four of five patients. However, in four of seven, multiple hepatic metastases contained low to absent levels despite simultaneously high values in chest lesions. Immunohistochemical studies of histaminase revealed that within each primary tumor different cells contained different amounts of the enzyme. Since marker content varied between tumor cells, between primary tumors and between metastases in individual patients we conclude that circulating levels of these three markers cannot be expected necessarily to mirror tumor burden in patients with small-cell lung tumors.'
'27268'	'Hypothalamic regulatory hormones: physiological and clinical implications.'	''	''	''	'The hypothalamic regulatory hormones used for clinical studies are TRH, Gn-RH and somatostatin. In addition, as dopamine appears to be a physiological PIF, the dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine, could be considered as functional analogues of PIF. Gn-RH can be used to study the hypothalamic-pituitary gonadal relationship and to test the secretory reserve capacity of the gonadotrophs in disease states. Unfortunately Gn-RH testing discrimulates between pituitary and hypothalamic diseases only poorly. However gonadotrophin deficient men or women may be successfully treated with long-term Gn-RH with induction of puberty, potency, spermatogenesis and ovulation. Somatostatin has multiple actions in inhibiting endocrine and exocrine secretion but its actions are still being explored in diabetes. Bromocriptine, a long acting dopamine agonist (a functional analogue of PIF), suppresses prolactin and is highly effective in treating many hypogonadal states since hyperprolactinaemia is common. It also lowers growth hormone in acromegaly. TRH has provided a major, accurate, sensitive and safe test of thyroid function.'
'27864'	"Lymphocyte ecto-5'-nucleotidase deficiency in agammaglobulinemia."	''	''	''	"Fresh peripheral blood lymphocytes from eight patients with congenital agammaglobulinemia demonstrate reduced ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity when compared to the mean activity of normal subjects and patients with other forms of immunoglobulin deficiency. A specific defect of ecto-5'-nucleotidase is further suggested by normal values for lymphocyte ecto-adenosinetriphosphatase and ecto-nonspecific phosphatase. The data provide evidence for an enzyme deficiency in this X-linked, B lymphocyte deficiency syndrome."
'27949'	'Neuroendocrine disorders in depressions and their significance for the monoamine hypothesis of depression.'	''	''	''	'This article discusses the results of recent neuroendocrinological research in depressions. The abnormalities found in a given category of vital depressive patients--cortisol hypersecretion, decreased growth hormone response to insulin hypoglycaemia and decreased luteinizing hormone secretion in menopause--are believed to be due to deficient noradrenalin-(NA)-ergic activity in the hypothalmus. Thus explained, they support the so-called MA (monoamine) hypothesis, which postulates that a functional NA deficiency in the brain plays a role in the pathogenesis of certain types of vital depression. Disorders in certain central MA-ergic systems are predictive of disorders in the hormone secretion of the anterior pituitary. Inversely, disorders in the hormone secretion of the anterior pituitary can be indicative of disorders in the MA-ergic transmission in the hypothalamus. Consequently we can expect a convergence of transmitter research and neuroendocrinological research--two lines of research which have so far been largely separated in studies of human individuals.'
'28056'	'[Gamma-glutamyltransferase. Human pathology and animal biology].'	''	''	''	'Gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT, EC 2.3.2.2) is in man and animals mainly a renal enzyme. It is also present in non-negligeable quantities in the liver except in certain rodents such as the rat. In the cells, the cytosoluble fraction of the enzyme is very low and most of the enzyme is linked to the microsomal fraction in vitro. This fraction permits its use in the diagnosis of liver and biliary disease by measurement of its serum activity and that of renal disease by measurement of its urinary activity. In biological research, the prospects offered by GGT both in human and animal cancers, and in pharmacology and toxicology makes it probably one of the most appreciated biological tests in the exploration of liver, biliary and renal function.'
'28185'	'Separation and analysis of arylsulfatase isoenzymes in body fluids of man.'	''	''	''	'Soluble arylsulfatase (EC 3.1.6.1) is present in the body fluids of man in the form of two isoenzymes, arylsulfatase A and B, which reportedly are useful biochemical markers for certain types of malignancy. However, rapid assay of the individual isoenzymes is extremely difficult; procedures based on differential inhibition or activation of the isoenzymes in a mixture yield only semiquantitative results. A feature of these isoenzymes is their inhibition by some common anions (notably phosphate) at physiologic concentrations. The isoenzymes can be separated by anion-exchange chromatography, the B isoenzyme being eluted in the void volume and the A isoenzyme and the anionic inhibitors retarded. Lead is used to sequester phosphate, enabling measurement of A in the salt-eluted fraction. Using this technique, we have found significant elevations of B in the sera of patients with colorectal cancer. The potential of rapid, chromatographic separation coupled with continuous monitoring for arylsulfatase activity is discussed.'
'28488'	'Isolation and properties of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase from Morris hepatoma 5123D.'	''	''	''	'gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase was purified 600-fold from Morris hepatoma 5123D by six-step procedure. Its apparent molecular weight estimated by centrifugation in sucrose gradient with Triton X-100 amounts to 108 000. Some dipeptides particularly glycylglycine and several amino acids considerably increase the enzyme activity but L-serine with borate decreases it. Usually transfer activity of the enzyme towards gamma-L-glutamyl substrates was much higher than hydrolytic. The best substrate for the hepatoma enzyme is reduced glutathione.'
'28629'	'Regulation of anaerobic glycolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumour cells.'	''	''	''	'1) In intact Ehrlich ascites tumour cells the anaerobic glycolytic flux rate and pattern of intermediates have been investigated at different pH values of the extracellular medium. 2) As predicted from the dependence of the lactic acid dehydrogenase equilibrium on pH a strong negative correlation between log ([lactate]/[pyruvate]) and pH has been found. 3) The steady state fluxes of glycolysis at pH 8.0 and 7.4 are rather equal, despite significant differences in the intracellular concentrations of glycolytic intermediates. At pH 8.0 the concentrations of ATP, glucose 6-phosphate, and fructose 6-phosphate are lower, and the concentrations of ADP, AMP, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, triose phosphates, phosphoglycerates, and phosphoenolpyruvate are higher than at pH 7.4. 4) From the analysis of the pH dependent changes of metabolites it follows that different mechanisms are responsible for maintaining equal actual activities of hexokinase, phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase at pH 7.4 and 8.0. 5) From an application of the linear theory of enzymatic chains and a calculation of the control strength of the regulatory important enzymes results that hexokinase is evidently rate-limiting for glycolysis, and phosphofructokinase is also significantly influencing the glycolytic flux. Pyruvate kinase and glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, on the other hand, do not significantly affect the rate of the overall glycolytic flux in ascites.'
'28820'	'The isolation and identification of 2,4-diketones present in human and animal tissues and in urine.'	''	''	''	'The chemical isolation of 2,3-diketone fraction from hydrolysates of various mammalian tissues has been accomplished by the use of a modified Girard T procedure. This fraction, which constitutes a new lipid class, has been resolved by gas chromatography into a number of homologous 2,4-diketones, ranging in chain length from C13 to C25. After separation by preparative gas chromatography, the following compounds have been unequivocally identified: 2,4-heptadecanedione, 2,4-nonadecanedione, 2,4-heneicosanedione, 2,4-docosanedione, and delta12-2,4-heneicosenedione. The 2,4-diketones appear to exist in tissues in the free state or in labile combination. They are present also in human urine.'
'29287'	'[Gastrin-secreting tumors].'	''	''	''	''
'29338'	'[Histamine H-2 receptor antagonists and medical treatment of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome].'	''	''	''	'Cimetidine was studied in 8 cases of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The average dose was 1,2 g a day for 14 to 195 days. The treatment was remarkably effective in 2 cases, but only partial or temporary improvement was noted in 3 other cases. The last 3 patients failed to respond to treatment. The possibility of a rebound phenomenon requires strict clinical and biological supervision.'
'29706'	'Estradiol receptor analysis in human breast cancer tissue by isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gel.'	''	''	''	'Isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gel combined with limited proteolysis is a simple and specific method for quantitation of estradiol receptors in breast cancer tissue. At least eight different samples can be analyzed simultaneously on one gel, and the whole procedure, including sample preparation, takes less than 7 hr. In comparison with sucrose gradient centrifugation, isoelectric focusing is more sensitive, possibly due to the short time (1.5 to 2 hr) needed for the analysis. Furthermore, only one incubation with tritium-labeled estradiol is needed for an analysis, which means that a smaller amount of tumor tissue is needed than for most other methods. This fact allows analysis of the estrogen receptor content in tumor material obtained from fine-needle biopsy.'
'29733'	'Evidence for secretion of vasoactive intestinal peptide by tumours of pancreas, adrenal medulla, thyroid and lung: support for the unifying APUD concept.'	''	''	''	'Levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) were measured by radioimmunoassay in plasma or tissue from thirty-five patients with watery diarrhoea, and in plasma of twenty-five normal controls. Plasma levels were between 0.6 and 11.0 ng/ml in thirty-one of the thirty-three patients in whom it was measured and too low to measure (less than 200 pg/ml) in the other two. Peptide levels were less than 200 pg/ml in twenty-three of the controls, but higher in the remaining two. All tissues from patients were "rich" in VIP (10 ng to 35 microgram per g). The aetiologic diagnoses included pancreatic islet-cell adenoma or adenocarcinoma, islet-cell hyperplasia, bronchogenic carcinoma, pheochromocytoma, ganglioneuroblastoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, and retroperitoneal histiocytoma. The findings support the conclusions that: (1) VIP is a likely mediator of the water-diarrhoea syndrome; (2) the syndrome may result from a variety of tumours; (3) this or a related peptide hormone may be secreted by these tumours; and (4) these tumours may have a common embryonic origin.'
'30194'	'ABO-incompatible marrow transplants.'	''	''	''	'Seventeen patients with aplastic anemia or acute leukemia received transplants from donors who had major ABO incompatibilities. Antibody titers were decreased by plasma and whole blood exchanges prior to marrow infusion. All 17 patients were successfully engrafted, and there was one possible rejection in the patient with the highest pretransplant anti-A IgG titer. Nine of 17 patients are currently alive. A review was carried out of transplants performed in Seattle between HLA-matched siblings with aplastic anemia and leukemia. Two hundred forty-six evaluable patients with ABO-compatible donors were compared with 46 with minor ABO-incompatible donors. There was no effect of minor ABO incompatibility on graft rejection, incidence and severity of graft-versus-host disease, or survival.'
'30426'	'Neuroleptic-induced prolactin level elevation and breast cancer: an emerging clinical issue.'	''	''	''	'This article reviews the evidence that neuroleptics may increase the risk of breast cancer via their effects on prolactin secretion. All available neuroleptics, including reserpine, raise serum prolactin levels. Elevated serum prolactin level increases the incidence of spontaneously occurring mammary tumors in mice, and increases the growth of established carcinogen-induced mammary tumors in rats. Caution is necessary in extrapolating this relationship to human mammary tumors because human and rodent tumors differ in some important characteristics, including hormone responsiveness. Serum prolactin levels in women with, or at risk for, breast cancer have generally been normal, and only a minority of human mammary tumors respond to changes in serum prolactin levels. Epidemiologic studies have failed to demonstrate an increased risk of breast cancer associated with the use of neuroleptics or reserpine. Thus, although some human mammary tumors are prolactin dependent, the available evidence does not demonstrate an increased risk of breast cancer in women receiving neuroleptics. We conclude that (1) additional epidemiologic studies of the incidence of mammary tumors in women treated with neuroleptics are desirable; (2) it is premature to mandate warning patients of an unknown and undemonstrated increase in the risk of developing breast cancer associated with neuroleptic treatment; (3) detection of existing mammary tumors by breast examination prior to administration of neuroleptics is desirable; and (4) development of antipsychotic drugs that do not increase serum prolactin level may be indicated.'
'30536'	'Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and other tumor markers in ovarian and cervical cancer.'	''	''	''	'Combinations of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), pregnancy-associated macroglobulin (PAM) and placenta-like alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) were studied in groups of patients with ovarian and cervical cancer. In ovarian cancer, only CEA and PLAP levels appeared to reflect tumor burden and were complementary in detecting active disease. In cervical cancer, CEA and GGT reflected tumor burden, while PLAP showed just the reverse--the highest degree of positivity being present in minimal disease. PLAP positivity was even more pronounced in patients with cervical dysplasia and carcinoma in situ while CEA and GGT were negative. The data indicate that the use of marker combinations can improve our capacity to detect minimal disease and provide information regarding tumor biology that may not be available by studying individual markers or by other means. It remains to be determined whether the use of tumor markers can influence existing therapy sufficiently to alter the outcome in cancers which are notoriously difficult to treat.'
'30556'	'Neuroendocrine control of prolactin in experimental animals.'	''	''	''	'Hypothalamic regulation of prolactin secretion in animals (mammals) and man appears to be similar, and no significant differences have yet been demonstrated. The hypothalamus contains neurotransmitters and polypeptides that can either inhibit or stimulate prolactin release, although the predominant influence under basal conditions is to inhibit prolactin release. Thus pituitary stalk section or placement of lesions in the basal tuberal region of the hypothalamus results in increased prolactin release and sometimes in initiation of lactation. Among agents in the hypothalamus that can inhibit prolactin release, the most important appear to be an as yet unidentified polypeptide prolactin release inhibiting factor (PIF) and dopamine. There is some evidence that dopamine may account for most, if not all, of the prolactin release inhibiting activity of the hypothalamus. Agents that increase dopamine activity, i.e. L-dopa, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, etc., depress prolactin release. Acetylcholine also can inhibit prolactin release, but it appears to act via the catecholamines. Of the agents in the hypothalamus that stimulate prolactin release, the most important appear to be an as yet uncharacterized polypeptide prolactin releasing factor (PRF), thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and serotonin. TRH is as effective in releasing prolactin as in releasing TSH, but under most physiological states, TSH and prolactin release do not occur together. Serotonin and its precursors, tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan, are powerful releasors of prolactin and have been shown to be involved in some physiological states in which prolactin is released, i.e. during suckling, stress, etc. Other agents in the hypothalamus that can stimulate prolactin release include GABA and some prostaglandins, but these have not yet been shown to be involved in physiological control of prolactin secretion. Exteroceptive stimuli that alter prolactin release act through the CNS and hypothalamus, but some hormones and drugs also can act directly on the pituitary to promote or depress prolactin release.'
'30682'	'Secretion pattern of secretin in man: regulation by gastric acid.'	''	''	''	'Median concentration of plasma secretin in the fasting state in 11 achlorhydria patients, 17 normal subjects, eight duodenal ulcer patients, and 11 Zollinger-Ellison patients was 0.3, 1.2, 2.5, and 5.9 pmol x 1(-1), respectively. Aspiration of gastric acid normal subjects and duodenal ulcer patients was followed by a significant lowering of the plasma secretin concentration. In normal subjects insulin-induced hypoglycaemia resulted in increased secretin levels when gastric acid was allowed to enter the duodenum, whereas no changes were observed when gastric acid was aspirated. Simultaneous measurements of intraduodenal pH and plasma secretin concentration in the fasting state and in response to a meal showed that rapid falls in intraduodenal pH were followed by short-lived increments in plasma secretin concentration. These changes in pH and in secretin levels were diminished after cimetidine. It is concluded that gastric acid in man does trigger release of secretin and that secretin is secreted intermittently both in the fasting state and in response to a meal when boluses of acid enter the duodenum.'
