616	The value of a histamine H2-receptor antagonist in the management of patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.	Inhibition of acid secretion by an H2-receptor antagonist (metiamide) was assessed in three patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Metiamide (200 or 300 mg) inhibited acid secretion transiently (2 1/2 hours) by 85 to 100 per cent in all patients. Although anticholinergic drugs alone inhibited acid secretion by only 0 to 35 per cent in these patients, the combination of metiamide and anticholinergic markedly prolonged the inhibitory effect of metiamide. Total gastrectomy was refused by one patient, and was impossible in another; both were treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for five and 10 months. A third patient was treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for three weeks in preparation for total gastrectomy. Ulcer pain and diarrhea disappeared, and each gained weight. H2-receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of some patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.	D015043
653	[Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated medically by an inhibitor of H2 histamine receptors].	Metiamide an histamine H2-receptors antagonist has been used to treat a case of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome characterized by a long standing diarrhea, an important gastric hypersecretion and a moderatly elevated plasma gastrin but without digestive ulceration. At the dose of 600 mg per day, Metiamide induced a complete suppression of acid secretion, an effect which lasted for 15 days after stopping the drug. Accordingly and since the only finding at time of laparotomy was a small lymph node enlarged with endocrine metastatic tissue, the stomach was left intact and Metiamide pursued. During the first 4 months of chronic administration of Metiamide, acid secretion was maintained at levels below 25 p.cent of initial values. Ulteriorly however, although dosages of Metiamide were increased, acid hypersecretion resumed and a duodenal ulcer developed. Total gastrectomy was then performed 11 months after the beginning of Metiamide. In spite of the failure of Metiamide treatment, the long term follow up of this case of Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, allowed us to get theoretical and practical informations.	D015043
786	Bioluminescence assay of enzymes obtained from buccal epithelium by superficial scraping.	A method is presented for the simultaneous assay of buccal enzymes by measuring reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and adenosine triphosphate with the aid of the bioluminescence of luciferase extracts. The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) was shown earlier to be increased in homogeneous leukoplakias of the oral mucosa. Since smoking has been implicated as an etiologic factor of leukoplakia, G6PDH was measured in the normal buccal epithelium of cigarette smokers. No difference was found in the activity of G6PDH between smokers and nonsmokers when related to the activity of pyruvate kinase, which is known to be invariable in healthy and leukoplakic oral mucosa. A new compact kinetic luminescence analyzer is briefly described.	D007972
795	'Picture frame' fibres in a carrier of the trait for malignant hyperpyrexia.	A member of a family which was known to be susceptible to malignant hyperpyrexia, who was identified as a carrier by the presence of an elevated serum creatine-phosphokinase, has been investigated further. Muscle was examined biochemically, and the study included the sarcoplasmic ATPase-activity, actinomycin, Mg2+ ATPase activity, ATP, phosphocreatine and glucose-6-phosphate. In addition, the calcium uptake by the sarcoplasmic reticulum was studied. The histochemical analysis of the muscle revealed the presence of a new fibre type characterised by a dense rim of ATPase activity, which gives the impression of a 'picture-frame'. Ultramicroscopic study revealed changes in the mitochondria and areas of myofibrillar disruption with swelling of the sarcoplasmic reticulum.	D009369
948	A hepatoma-associated alkaline phosphatase, the Kasahara isozyme, compared with one of the isozymes of FL amnion cells.	It was found that a human hepatoma-associated ALP (orthophosphoric monoester phosphohydrolase, E.C. 3.1.3.1) shared electrophoretic mobility, inactivation by urea, inhibition by inorganic phosphate, ethylenediaminetetraacetate, and amino acids (L-phenylalanine, L-leucine and L-homoarginine), heat stability, sensitivity to neuraminidase, pH optimum, Km value, and antigen site with fast moving ALP isozymes of FL cell strain derived from human amniotic membrane. However, 40-week-old fresh amniotic membrane lacked this isozyme. Instead, it had a placental type ALP consisting of minor components. The other ALP isozyme of FL cells had properties common to hepatoma ALP with regard to L-phenylalanine sensitivity, inhibition by ethylenediaminetetraacetate, inactivation by urea, and antigen site, but differed from it in electrophoretic mobility, sensitivity to L-leucine and L-homoarginine, and the presence of another antigen site. It was more heat stable and more sensitive to inhibition by inorganic phosphate than Hepatoma AP. The possible regulatory mechanism between the hepatoma-type ALP and the placental type ALP in the amnion cells is considered.	D006528
1624	Stearoyl-CoA desaturase activity in mammary adenocarcinomas carried by C3H mice.	Transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and livers of C3H mice fed a stock diet or a linoleate rich diet (15% corn oil) contain similar amounts of oleate (ca 3 mg/gm tissue). On feeding either a high carbohydrate, fat free or a high carbohydrate, saturated fat-containing (15% hydrogenated coconut or cottonseed oil) diet for 6 weeks, oleate levels increased 2-fold in tumor and 5-fold in liver. The specific activity of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in liver microsomes was similar to that in the corresponding fractions of mammary glands of lactating mice. In liver, this activity was enhanced 2- to 3-fold by feeding a high carbohydrate, fat free or a high carbohydrate, saturated fat diet. The desaturase activity in mammary tumor microsomes, while only 10% of that in hepatic microsomes, remained unaltered regardless of the type of diet fed. These observations suggest that (a) a major portion of the oleate in the mammary tumor is not produced within the tissue, (b) dietary adaptation is not a general characteristic of stearoyl-CoA desaturase in neoplastic tissues, and (c) enhanced desaturase activity in liver is directly related to the absence of linoleate or oleate, or to a large decrease in oleate in the diet.	D000230
1750	Isolation and characterization of an unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant of cultured mammalian cells.	An unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant derived from Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells has been isolated and characterized. This mutant grows normally when oleate or other unsaturated fatty acids are supplemented in the growth medium. Unlike the wild-type CHO cells, growth stops when medium is deprived of unsaturated fatty acid. Whole cell pulse experiments with [14C]acetate or [14C]stearate indicate that the mutant is defective in unsaturated fatty acid synthesis. Enzyme assays in vitro show that the enzymatic defect of the mutant is localized to the microsomal stearoyl-CoA desaturase.	D010051
2015	Acid-base balance in amphibian gastric mucosa.	It has been established that H+ secretion can be maintained in frog stomach in the absence of exogenous CO2 by using a nutrient bathing fluid containing 25 mM H2PO4 (pH approximately equal to 4.5) or by lowering the pH of a nonbuffered nutrient solution to about 3.0-3.6. Exogenous CO2 in the presence of these nutrient solutions uniformly caused a marked decrease in H+ secretion, PD, adn short-circuit current (Isc) and an increase in transmucosal resistance (R). Elevation of nutrient [k+] to 83 mM reduced R significantly but transiently without change in H+ when nutrient pH less than 5.0, whereas R returned to base line and H+ increased when nutrient pH greater than 5.0. Acidification of the nutrient medium in the presence of exogenous CO2 results in inhibition of the secretory pump, probably by decreasing intracellular pH, and also interferes with conductance at the nutrient membrane. Removal of exogenous CO2 from standard bicarbonate nutrient solution reduced by 50% the H+, PD, and Isc without change in R; K+-free nutrient solutions reverse these changes in Isc and PD but not in H+. The dropping PD and rising R induced by K+-free nutrient solutions in 5% CO2 - 95% O2 are returned toward normal by 100% O2. Our findings support an important role for exogenous CO2 in maintaining normal acid-base balance in frog mucosa by acting as an acidifying agent.	D013274
2274	Circulating levels of prolactin in human breast cancer.	Serum prolactin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassays in 98 patients with established carcinoma of breast, 12 patients with cystic mastitis and 10 patients with gynaecomastia and compared with that of age matched normal control women. The serum prolactin levels in the patients with breast cancer, gynaecomastia or cystic mastitis were observed to be similar to that in normal women. It was interesting to note that the levels of prolactin in the luteal phase of the cycle were higher than that in the early follicular phase in normal women.	D001943
2380	Laboratory aids to diagnosis--enzymes.	A summary is presented of those organ specific enzyme assays traditionally used in evaluation of the patient with cancer. In addition, the use of certain serum enzymes such as gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, phosphohexose isomerase or 5'-nucleotidase as aids in following the course of the disease, particularly in patients with metastatic spread to the liver is outlined. Also considered is the utility of enzyme analysis in biopsy tissue, biologic fluids, and washings of body cavities. Newer enzymes are considered which might, in the future, be developed as diagnostic tools or as probes for the understanding of the etiology of cancer.	D009369
2401	Experience with a simple method for estrogen receptor assay in breast cancer.	A simple procedure for the assay of specific estrogen receptors in breast cancer tissue is described. Estrogen receptors were detected in 74% of primary tumors, 71% of skin metastases and 63% of lymph node metastases. Postmenopausal patients and younger oophorectomized women had estrogen receptor-containing tumors more frequently, and at higher levels, than uncastrated, premenopausal, patients. The stability of estrogen receptors was not affected by the transportation of samples from distant hospitals, providing that they were kept frozen in Tris buffer, pH 8.0, at all times.	D001943	D009362
2624	An optimized semi-automatic rate method for serum glutathione reductase activity and its application to patients with malignant disease.	An improved and optimized method for serum glutathione reductase is described. The reference range for normal subjects is 47-79 IU/1. The method is more sensitive than conventional enzyme tests in the detection of malignant disease. It was not raised more frequently in patients with clinical evidence of metastases than in those clinically free of such metastases, and it did not seem to correlate with prognosis among those patients who failed to survive six months from the time the analysis was first conducted.	D009362
2827	Ornithine decarboxylase activity and DNA synthesis in Morris hepatomas 5123-C and 7800.		D006528
2870	Cimetidine suppression of nocturnal gastric secretion in active duodenal ulcer.	Nocturnal pain and gastric hypersecretion are common in duodenal ulcer. Therefore, we investigated the antisecretory effects of a new H2-receptor antagonist, cimetidine, in 200-, 300- or 400-mg doses, taken orally at bedtime. The 200-mg dose did not cause a statistically significant change in nocturnal (midnight to 7 a.m.) acid output and had only a borderline effect on pH. However, the 300-mg and 400-mg doses significantly (P less than 0.001) lowered acid output and increased (P less than 0.01) intragastric pH. All doses caused substantial decreases in secretory volume output. After a 400-mg dose, half the patients remained anacidic for eight hours. Dose-related increases of drug blood levels were observed and correlated with the degree and duration of inhibition of acid output. Serum gastrin levels were unaffected. Cimetidine appears to be a potent inhibitor of nocturnal gastric secretion.	D013274
3076	[Electronmicroscopic study of the gravity receptors in ctenophores].	Secondarily sensitive receptor balancer cells comprise the gravity receptor in the aboral organ-polivalent organ of Ctenophora. Ctenophora are phylogenetically the first animals which created receptor cell supplied with a single flagellar kinocilium connected with the otolithic apparatus. The receptor balancer cells are innervated by the nerve fiber branched off the nerve cells of the aboral ganglion. The localization of AChE, BuChE products of cytochemical reaction on sodium suggests that the cholinergic mechanism may take part in the process of synaptic transmission. Our morphological data cannot exclude an adrenergic mechanizm also.	D045888
3102	Multiple endocrine adenomatosis syndromes.	MEA I and II are two genetically distinct tumor endocrinopathies, both showing autosomal dominant inheritance. Little overlap exists between these conditions, and that which is present can be explained on the basis of two mutually exclusive factors: (1) the secondary consequences of hormone excess on another endocrine gland or (2) the fact that both tumor syndromes appear to result from genetically faulty differentiation of neuroectoderm. A seemingly disproportionate amount of effort has been expended on study of the MEA syndromes. However, there would seen to be ample justification for this interest: 1) The MEA syndromes, unlike most neoplastic conditions, are hereditary and can be readily detected and more expeditiously treated; 2) hormone radioimmunoassay has greatly facilitated diagnosis in asymptomatic individuals; and (3) probably most importantly, study of these syndromes has provided considerable insight into the embryologic origin of the endocrine system. It is conceivable that knowledge gained from these conditions may stimulate further inquiry into the processes whereby neoplasia occurs in endocrine tissue and thus lead the way to the development of effective therapy for a host of hormone-producing tumors.	D018761
3768	[Letter: IGA level in cancer patients].		D009369
4219	Carcinoembryonic antigen and phosphohexose isomerase, gammaglutamyl transpeptidase and lactate dehydorgenase levels in patients with and without liver metastases.	Plasma carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and serum enzyme levels of phosphohexose isomerase (PHI), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (psi-GTP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were measured in 147 patients with malignancy. Levels were higher in patients (particularly with G.I., breast and lung cancers) than in normals or in patients with cancer in clinical remission. Elevations of CEA and of all three enzymes in blood were most frequent in patients with hepatic metastases. CEA elevations correlated directly with PHI levels. Seventy-eight percent of patients with metastatic G.I. cancer could be identified by CEA (greater than 5 ng/ml) alone, as well as 38% with breast cancer and 85% with lung cancer; but only 17% of other cancers could be identified by CEA alone. CEA or one or more enzymes was elevated in 64% of metastatic breast cancer patients, 92% of lung cancer and 41% of other cancers, but enzyme measurement did not increase identification of G.I. cancer over that achieved by CEA alone. These findings suggest that circulating levels of CEA, PHI, psi-GTP and LDH may reflect a direct contribution from the malignant tissue and/or liver malfunction secondary to liver replacement.	D001943	D009362	D008175
4239	Evaluation of lipase activity in serum by radial enzyme diffusion.	Results of determination of serum lipase by radial enzyme diffusion correlate well with those by a titrimetric reference method in the abnormal range. The specificity of the diffusion assay allows the differentiation of patients with pancreatic disease, even when the lipase activity of the serum is within the normal limits of the tritrimetric assay. Pancreatic lipase is not detectable by the diffusion assay in the serum of individuals who are free from pancreatic disease.	D010190
4657	Proteins of the hepatoma tissue culture cell plasma membrane.	The specificity of lactoperoxidase-catalyzed iodination for the proteins of the hepatoma tissue culture cell plasma membrane was examined by histochemical, biochemical, and cell fractionation techniques. Light microscope autoradiography of sectioned cells shows the incorporated label to be localized primarily at the periphery of the cell. Most of this label can be released from the cell by trypsin but not by collagenase or hyaluronidase. The label is recovered from the cells as either monoiodotyrosine or diiodotyrosine after hydrolysis of cell extracts with a mixture of proteolytic enzymes. The label co-purifies during cell fractionation with an authentic liver cell plasma membrane marker enzyme, 5'-nucleotidase. Thus, the incorporated iodide is itself a valid marker for those membrane polypeptides having tyrosine residues accessible to the lactoperoxidase. The polypeptide complexity of the purified plasma membrane was examined by high resolution dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. At least 50 polypeptides in the membrane are accessible to iodination. These polypeptides probably represent the bulk of the protein mass of the membrane and iodinating them does not affect cell viability, growth rate, or cell function. Labeling experiments with fucose and glucosamine show that at least nine of the iodinated peptides may be glycoproteins.	D006528
4666	Viability of cells in ethanol. Role of alcohol dehydrogenase.	Rodent cells were found to contain a high level of alcohol dehydrogenase activity which was not inducible. Other hepatoma and nonhepatoma cell lines were tested and found to contain lower but measurable levels of alcohol dehydrogenase.	D006528
4812	Difference in the number of insulin binding sites between cortisol-sensitive and cortisol-resistant lymphoma P1798 cells.	Cortisol-sensitive and cortisol-resistant lymphoma P1798 cells specifically bind [25I]insulin. Resistant lymphocytes bind 40% less insulin than sensitive cells. These results suggest that insulin (or insulin-like substances) may play a role in growth regulation and/or response of this tumor to glucocorticoid therapy.	D009369
4882	Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in metastatic liver carcinoma and other liver diseases.		D008113
4918	Letter: Diagnosis of renal tumor by gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase.		D007680
5168	Studies on the chemical nature of urinary chemiluminescence.	Studies on the nature of the chemicals responsible for urinary chemiluminescence have been carried out. Urinary chemiluminescence can be increased slightly by sulphatase, more by glucuronidase but most of all by boiling for 1 hour at pH 1. It is suggested that most of the chemicals responsible for urinary chemiluminescence are bound as non-chemiluminescent precursors to sulphate, glucuronic acid and in other ways. Both the chemiluminescent material and the inactive precursors are freely ultrafiltrable with molecular weights below 500. A survey of various chemicals has revealed considerable chemiluminescence in certain metabolites of naphthylamines and known to cause bladder cancer but little or no chemoluminescence in the tryptophane metabolites that have been thought to cause bladder cancer.	D001749
5326	Suppression and stimulation mechanisms controlling glucagon secretion in a case of islet-cell tumor producing glucagon, insulin, and gastrin.	The mechanisms controlling secretion of glucagon and other pancreatic hormones were studied in a patient affected with multihormone-secreting islet-cell tumor. Fasting glucagon levels (3,000 pg./ml.) rose to 10 ng./ml. following arginine stimulation. While oral glucose load and intravenous glucose infusion did not suppress glucagon secretion, insulin administration induced a prompt depression in glucagon levels. Glucagon, insulin, and gastrin levels were suppressed by somatostatin while calcium infusion caused a paradoxical increase. It is suggested that only some of the stimulation-inhibition mechanisms were conserved in this case of glucagon-secreting pancreatic tumor.	D010190
5842	Bile canalicular alkaline phosphatase and disease.	The alkaline phosphatase reaction is normally absent in human bile canaliculi, but was found in 79 patients. In search for a common causal factor, these patients were further examined. Thirty-seven were autopsied. The conditions most ocmmonly associated with the phenomenon were malignant tumours with or without involvement of the liver, collagen diseases, long-standing partial obstruction of the common bile duct, and genetic variants of alpha-1-antitrypsin. No clinical or laboratory facts were common to all the patients.	D009369
5878	Inhibition of Newcastle disease virus replication by 6-azauridine. I. Inefficacy of purified uridine kinase, effect of adenosine-5'-triphosphate.	As distinct from cell-free extracts prepared from tumour cells, partially purified uridine kinase prepared from the same cells was not effective in 6-azauridine (AzUrd) inhibition of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) replication. This showed that uridine kinase was not the effective component of cell-free extracts. Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) was found to exert a synergic effect in combination with AzUrd in the inhibition of NDV replication.	D009369
6067	Amino acid stimulation of ATP cleavage by two Ehrlich cell membrane preparations in the presence of ouabain.	Two membrane fractions prepared from the Ehrlich ascites-tumor cell show non-identical stimulatory responses to certain amino acids in their Mg+2 -dependent activity to cleave ATP, despite the presence of ouabain and the absence of Na+ or K+. The first of these, previously described, shows little (Na+ + K+)-ATPase activity, and is characteristicallly stimulated by the presence of certain diamino acids with low pK2, and at pH values suggesting that the cationic forms of these amino acids are effective. The evidence indicates that these effects are not obtained through occupation of the kinetically discernible receptor site serving characteristically for the uphill transport of these amino acids into the Ehrlich cell. The second membrane preparation was purified with the goal of concentrating the (Na+ +K+)-ATPase activity. It also is stimulated by the model diamino acid, 4-amino-1-methylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid, and several ordinary amino acids. The diamino acids were most effective at pH values where the neutral zwitterionic forms might be responsible. Among the optically active amino acids tested, the effects of ornithine and leucine were substantially stronger for the L than for the D isomers. The list of stimulatory amino acids again corresponds poorly to any single transport system, although the possibility was not excluded that stimulation might occur for both preparations by occupation of a membrane site which ordinarily is kinetically silent in the transport sequence. The high sensitivity to deoxycholate and to dicyclohexylcarbodiimide of the hydrolytic activity produced by the presence of L-ornithine and 4-amino-1-methyl-piperidine-4-carboxylic acid suggests that the stimulatory effect is not merely a general intensification of the background Mg+ -dependent hydrolytic activity.	D009369
6326	Studies of human transcortin at different pHs: circular dichroism, polymerisation and binding affinity.	The transcortin we have used in this work is extremely pure. This was shown by the polymerisation observed at pH 4. This polymerisation is never observed with an impure form of transcortin [4]. Moreover, since it is known that the presence of cortisol in the binding site is an essential condition to the activity of purified transcortin [5], it appears that a correlation between the secondary structure and the biological activity of the transcortin exists. The results we have obtained are summarized below: (1) The inhibition of the transcortin binding capacity essentially takes place between pH 5 and 4. (2) A reorganisation of the structure of the protein moiety is observed between pH 6.5 and 5.9. (3) A decrease of the helicity ratio is observed between pH 5 and 4. It appears therefore that, in the limits of experimental accuracy of CD measurements to determine the amount of beta-structure, no appreciable change of binding activity is taking place after the appearance of a large percentage of beta-structure between pH 6.5 and 6. On the other hand, the sudden decrease of protein activity at low pH is likely to be correlated with the disappearance of a well-defined helical region. Other biochemical and physical experiments would be of course necessary, in order to precise this first observation of a structure-function relationship in transcortin.	D006223
6486	Synthetic MIF has no effect on beta-MSH and ACTH hypersecretion in Nelson's syndrome.	The effect of synthetic MIF (H-Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2) on beta-MSH secretion was studied in five patients with Nelson's syndrome and in one patient with Addison's disease. Two milligrams of the tripetide were injected intravenously (1 mg in an acute injection, followed by a 30-minute-infusion of 1 mg in 20 ml of saline solution). No consistent effect could be observed during the 90-minute period after the beginning of the infusion. In the same patients, LVP stimulation and dexamethasone suppression tests brought about significant changes in the plasma beta-MSH and ACTH levels.	D009347
6600	Histamine metabolism. I. Thin-layer radiochromatographic assays for histaminase and histidine decarboxylase enzyme activities.	Thin-layer radiochromatographic methods for the measurement of histaminase and histidine decarboxylase activities have been developed. The assays are specific for the respective enzymes, are sensitive and reproducible, and can be performed using commercially available substrates. The histaminase assay permits determination of enzyme activity from 2.5 mul of pregnancy sera, 1-2 X 10(6) human granulocytes, and microgram quantities of partially purified human placenta histaminase with an error of less than 5 per cent. The histidine decarboxylase assay permits measurement of nanogram quantities of newly formed histamine from as few as 2 X 10(4) rat peritoneal mast cells or rat basophilic leukemia cells with an error of less than 5 per cent.	D015471
6810	[Radioreceptor assay of prolactin].		D001943
7240	Isolation, by partial pepsin digestion, of the three collagen-like regions present in subcomponent Clq of the first component of human complement.	1. Digestion of human subcomponent C1q with pepsin at pH4.45 for 20h at 37 degrees C fragmented most of the non-collagen-like amino acid sequences in the molecule to small peptides, whereas the entire regions of collagen-like sequence that comprised 38% by weight of the subcomponent C1q were left intact. 2. The collagen-like fraction of the digest was eluted in the void volume of a Sephadex G-200 column, was was showm to be composed of two major fragments when examined by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels run in buffers containing sodium dodecyl sulphate. These fragments were separated on CM-cellulose at pH4.9 in buffers containing 7.5M-urea. 3. Human subcomponent C1q on reduction and alkylation yields equimolar amounnts of three chains, which have been designated A, B and C [Reid et al. (1972) Biochem. J. 130, 749-763]. One of the pepsin fragments was shown to be composed of the N-terminal 95 residues of the A chain linked, via residue A4, by a single disulphide bond to a residue in the sequence B2-B6 in the N-terminal 91 residues of the B chain. The second pepsin fragment was shown to be composed of a disulphide-linked dimer of the N-terminal 94 residues of the C chain, the only disulphide bond being located at residue C4.4. The mol. wts. of the unoxidized and oxidized pepsin fragments were estimated from their amino acid compositions to be 20 000 and 18 200 for the A-B and C-C dimers and 11 400, 8800 and 9600 for the collagen-like fragments of the A, B and C chains respectively. Estimation of the molecular weights of the peptic fragments by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis run in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate gave values that were approx. 50% higher than expected from the amino acid sequence data. This is probably due to the high collagen-like sequence content of these fragments.	D018365
7352	Radiation-induced xerostomia in cancer patients. Effect on salivary and serum electrolytes.	Saliva and serum electrolyte concentrations were monitored in 30 patients given a course of xerostomia-producing cancer radiotherapy. The mean flow rate of stimulated whole saliva decreased 83.3% during a 6-week treatment period. The striking reduction in saliva output was accompanied by significant increases in saliva Na+, Cl-, Ca++, Mg++ and Prot.- concentrations and by a decrease in saliva HCO3- content. The xerostomic saliva was more concentrated and had a greater salinity than the pretreatment saliva in each instance. In contrast, none of the serum electrolytes measured was significantly altered by the subtotal salivary shutdown.	D009369
7785	gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase, a lymphoid cell-surface marker: relationship to blastogenesis, differentiation, and neoplasia.	gamma-Glutamyl transpeptidase, an enzyme that catalyzes gamma-glutamyl transfer from gamma-glutamyl compounds to amino acid and peptide acceptors, and which is known to be localized in the membranes of many epithelial cells, was found in a variety of lymphoid cells. The lymphoid cell enzyme is located on the cell surface, and exhibits substantially the same substrate specificity as the enzyme found in epithelial cells. Human and rat (but not mouse) lymphocyte gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was stimulated by treatment of the cells with mitogens. Normal human peripheral B-cells were more active than T-cells, but the reverse relationship of activities was found in chronic lymphocytic leukemia lymphocytes. Human lymphoblastic lines vary markedly in activity. In general, cell lines with B- and T-characteristics from patients with lymphoproliferative diseases had much lower activities than those of B-cell lines derived from normal subjects. The highest activity found was in a human myeloma line active in synthesis of an immunoglobulin light chain. The data indicate that gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase is a surface marker reflecting differentiation in normal and neoplastic cells.	D009101	D015451
7926	Amino acid transport in isolated neurons and glia.	Our efforts have been directed towards characterizing amino acid uptake, metabolism and release in bulk-isolated glia and neuronal perikarya studied in parallel with nerve-endings, especially as it concerns the transmitter amino acids and the participation of glia in the clearing of the synpatic space during impulse conduction. A possible neuromodulator role for the glia at the synapse is also suggested by K+-stimulated release. Our most definitive conclusions have been based so far on studies with GABA, although we are also beginning to accumulate data for glutamate related to glutamate-glutamine compartmentation. Glia preferentially accumulate potassium and amino acids compared to neuronal perikarya, have higher Na+/K+-ATPase activity, possess high-affinity, sodium-dependent uptake systems for GABA and glutamate similar to the ones in synaptosomes, and release amino acid in response to a potassium pulse by a calcium-independent process. Low neuronal uptake could be due to loss of dendrites. Unidirectional GABA-flux from the synaptosomal to glial compartment is supported by high GAD in nerve endings compared to high GABA-T in glia. Glutamine may be a transmitter glutamate-precursor in nerve-endings since glutaminase activity is high in nerve-endings, but low in glia where glutamine is presumably made. Glutamine uptake in both glia and synaptosomes obeys low-affinity kinetics in contrast to glutamate, consistent with the inability of glutamine to excite the neuronal membrane. The studies with GABA, which are considerably more extensive, are supported by related work using glia in tissue-culture and autoradiography. There appears to be a suggested difference in the behavior of amines which were poorly taken up by the glial system. Glia, synaptosomes and neuronal perikarya, in general behaved similarly with respect to requirements for uptake and release, except in the case of Ca++, which exerted opposite effects on glial and synaptosomal uptake of GABA. We believe that work along these lines tends to firmly establish a direct role for glial cells as modulators of neuronal excitability and represents a convergence between transmitter amino acid neuropharmacology and cellular biochemistry. This not only deepens and enlarges the vocabulary of synaptic biochemistry but also undoubtedly will have major clinical applications in the fields of epilepsy and behavior.	D015458
8356	Gastric and extragastric gastrin release in normal subjects in duodenal ulcer patients, and in patients with partial gastrectomy (Billroth I).	In 10 normal subjects, in 32 patients with duodenal ulcer (DU), and in 11 patients with partial gastrectomy (Billroth I), serum gastrin rose significantly after an oral and intraduodenal test meal. The highest increases were observed in DU patients after the oral as well as after the intraduodenal test meal. After the intraduodenal test meal in 4 normal subjects and in 17 DU patients an increase of gastric acid secretion and serum gastrin was measured. In basal state, after an intraduodenal or an oral test meal, DU patients with normal gastric acid secretory capacity had higher serum gastrin concentrations than DU patients with gastric hypersecretion. There was a good correlation between peak serum gastrin levels after the oral and after the intraduodenal test meal. From these data it is concluded: (1) Intraduodenal application of a test meal results in release of gastrin from extragastric sites. (2) Extragastric gastrin is biologically active. (3) DU patients are able to release more antral and more extragastric gastrin in response to a test meal. Further studies, however, are necessary to show the significance of these findings in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer disease.	D013274
8726	Identification of breast cancer transcortin and its inhibitory role in cell-mediated immunity.		D001943
8740	[Statistical analysis of cerebrospinal fluid acid-base equilibrium and cerebrospinal fluid lactate concentration in cases of brain tumors, cerebrocranial injuries and meningoencephalitis].	A statistical analysis of CSF lactate concentration and CSF pH and PCO2 was performed. The values were obtained from 211 samples taken from 76 neurosurgical patients. The values of pH and pCO2 were classified in three groups corresponding to the following three ranges of lactate concentration: below 15 mg%, 15-30 mg%, over 30 mg%. The mean values and standard deviations were calculated: suitable tests: F, t (Student), C (Cochran and Cox) were used. It was established, that statistically significant changes of CSF acid-base balance were present at lactate levels over 30 mg%. Next, the patients with lactate concentrations over 30 mg% were analysed. They were divided into three groups according to etiology: inflammatory changes, injuries, tumours. It was shown, that the CSF acid-base balance in patients with brain tumours is less disturbed then in patients with inflammatory changes or brain injury.	D001932
8753	[Letter: Gamma glutamyl-transpeptidase in tumor patients--experiences in Hungary].		D009369
8883	[Interaction between gastrointestinal hormones and endocrine regulation].	The vicinity of several hormone-producing glands as part of the anatomy of the intestinal tract and the resulting interaction has been confirmed by the discovery of hormonal factors of a specifically gastro-intestinal origin. Today we are mainly interested in the interaction between intermediary metabolism and incretory intestinal function; this is characterized by the joint action of conventional glandular hormones such as insulin and pancreatic glucagon as well as by the incretion of diffuse intestinal organs, hormones such as secretin, pancreozymin, motilin, VIP and GIP. The latter are at present subject of active research with the object of discovering their physiological significance be it as tissue hormones or as humoral agents with a "long distance" impact; their role within pathophysiology is also of interest. GIP ("gastric inhibitory peptide"), apart form acting upon the intestinal tract, also causes a marked rise in insulin production; this GIP possibly is the factor responsible for the difference in glucose tolerance following i. v. or oral administration of glucose, something that scientists have been trying to discover for a long time. We have also endeavored to investigate somatostatin. This substance was originally discovered as a hypothalamic factor with inhibitory action on growth hormone secretion; in the meantime, however, cells containing and possibly also producing somatostatin have also been detected in the intestine and particularly in the islets of Langerhans (D-cells). Since somatostatin inhibits insulin secretion and especially glucagon release as well as the exretory functions of the stomach and of the pancreas, the significance of this hormone possibly is that of a tissue hormone with inhibitory action on adjacent cells. As factor inhibiting both endocrine and exocrine secretory processes it would combine these two complexes. The possible therapeutic significance of somatostatin administration to diabetics would lie in the saving of insulin. A third sector of present-day research deals with the interaction between the calcium metabolism and the hormones involved as well as the intestine. We know that patients suffering from primary hyperparathyroidism are prone to contract stomach ulcers and pancreatitis; patients with a gastrinoma and a hyperfunction of the epithelial bodies suffer from a Zollinger-Ellison-sindrome and this again suggests association with endocrine polyadenomatosis (Wermer syndrome). The inhibitory action of the parathormone antagonist calcitonin on the exocrine functions of the intestinal tract, such as the acid secretion of the stomach and the enzyme secretion of the pancreas, have already given rise to some considerations and experiments relative to treatment. It is to be hoped that because of all the joint observations cited above there will be better intergration of research both from the aspect of gastro-enterology and endocrinology. This might hopefully elucidate some of the unresolved problems ranging from basic research to practical application.	D015043	D015408	D018761
9001	Plasma activities of lysosomal enzymes after hepatic dearterialization in man.	Six patients with liver metastases from carcinoid or colon carcinoma underwent hepatic derterialization. This operation, known to cause both tumor necrosis and liver cell damage, caused considerable increases of several lysosomal acid hydrolases in the circulation. Thus, beta-glucosidase showed a small temporary increase during the operation, followed by a slower but higher reaction reaching a maximum 12 to 36 hours postoperatively. Similar reactions were noted for beta-glucuronidase, acid phosphatase, beta-galactosidase, arylsuphatase A, and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase while no reactions were found for cathepsin D. Very high enzyme levels occurred in a patient dying from bleeding complications in the postoperative period.	D009362	D002276	D003110
9331	Influence of acid secretory state on the gastric mucosal tolerance to back diffusion of H+.	The effect of back diffusion of H+ PON THE POTENTIAL DIFFERence (PD), electrical resistance (R), and short circuit current (Isc) of spontaneously secreting and burimamide-inhibited amphibian gastric mucosae were studied in vitro. When back diffusion of H+ was induced by the passage of an electrical current of 510 mua per cm2 from the secretory (S) side of pH 2.25 to the nutrient side (N) for 30 min, the spontaneously secreting mucosae showed small decreases in PD (23.6 leads to 16.2 mv) and Isc (80 leads to 61 mua per cm2) but no significant change in R. In the burimamide-inhibited mucosae there were marked and significantly greater decreases of PD (26.8 leads to 3.4 mv), R (473 leads to 170 ohms cm2) and Isc (50 leads to 13 mua per cm2). When back diffusion of H+ was induced by establishing a concentration gradient of H+ from S leads to N or by exposing the secretory surface to sodium taurocholate with secretory pH 2.25, the burimamide-inhibited tissue demonstrated significantly greater depression of the electrical parameters than the secreting mucosae. Intracellular pH, measured by the 5,5-dimethoxyazolidine-2,4-dione method, was significantly higher in the histamine-stimulated tissues (7.28) than in the metiamide-inhibited tissues (7.11). These studies strongly suggest that the secretory status of the mucosa and hence its acid-base status are important determinants in the tolerance of the tissue to exogenous back diffusion of H+. The measure of absolute loss of H+ From the mucosal solution alone may not be an adequate assessment of the gastric mucosal barrier.	D013274
9356	Phosphohexose isomerase: a useful parameter in the management of neoplasia.		D009369
9383	Interaction of tropomyosin with troponin components.	1. The TN-T and TN-I components of troponin both interact with tropomyosin and cause its precipitation in 0.1 M KC1 at neutral pH. The precipitate contains both end-to-end and side-by-side aggregates of tropomyosin molecules. 2. The TN-T and TN-I components change the band pattern of tropomyosin paracrystals formed in MgC1(2) solutions, although in different ways. TN-T causes the formation of hexagonal net structures, double-stranded net or paracrystals which result from the collapse of the double-stranded net. TN-I at pH 7.9 causes the formation of paracrystals with a 400 A periodic band pattern and a 200 A repeat. The same band pattern can also be seen in tropomyosin paracrystals formed at pH values below 6.0. 3. The TN-C component does not precipitate tropomyosin in 0.1 M KC1. The aggregates of tropomyosin obtained with either TN-T or TN-I can be solubilized by the addition of TN-C. No interaction of TN-C was observed with tropomyosin paracrystals formed in the presence of MgC12.	D015458
9598	[Critical observations on changes in gamma-glutamyl-transpepdidase in hepatopathies].	The behaviour of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was compared with other serum enzyme activities and functional parameters in a carefully selected and relatively extensive series of patients with liver disease, including alcoholics, in an investigation of the underlying pathogenesis and its clinical expression. Reference. to the literature and to personal data showed that increased gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels could be attributed to enzyme induction (caused by drugs or alcohol), liver damage in the broad sense, and intra- or extrahepatic cholestasis. These causes were individually predominant, or nearly so, on occasions, though their concomitance was more common. High levels, however, were not pathognomonic for a given disease. In alcoholism, they were highly indicative, especially if accompanied by GLD changes. They were a virtually constant, early, and typical finding in intra- and extra-hepatic cholestasis, and tended to persist for a time after the resolution of icterus. Lastly, they were an aid in the early diagnosis of aggressive hepatitis and liver cancer.	D008113
9604	Measurement of pituitary hormones: clinical applications. 5. Prolactin.	A sensitive and specific assay for human prolactin has been developed using human prolactin and antiserum distributed by the United States National Pituitary Agency. Plasma prolactin concentrations in control subjects ranged from 0-20 ng/ml. No sex difference in prolactin concentration was observed. A brisk increase in plasma prolactin levels occurred in normal subjects during the administration of chlorpromazine and thyroid stimulating hormone releasing factor (TRH). These stimulatory tests of prolactin release should therefore be useful in the assessment of hypothalamic pituitary function. Basal plasma prolactin values were raised in most patients who were being treated with phenothiazines and were helpful diagnostically in patients with amenorrhoea, galactorrhoea, hypogonadism, cranio-pharyngioma, "non-functioning" pituitary tumours and acromegaly. In many of these disorders a significant reduction in the plasma prolactin concentration was observed following oral administration of bromocriptine. Plasma prolactin determinations should be useful in evaluating the response to medical treatment or pituitary ablation.	D009369
9620	Polynucleotides. XL. Synthesis and properties of poly 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenylic acid.	Poly 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenylic acid (Poly Az) was synthesized from 2'-azido-2'-deoxyadenosine diphosphate by polynucleotide phosphorylase. Poly (Az) has U.V. absorption properties similar to poly (A) and hypochromicity of 40% at 0.1 M Na+ and neutrality. CD curve also resembled to that of poly (A), but has smaller ellipticity. Titration of poly (Az) with HCl gave a transition at pH 5.5, but exact structure of the acid-form complex was not elucidated. Upon mixing with poly (U), poly (Az) forms a 1:1 and 1:2 complexes having Tm's somewhat higher than that of poly (A)- poly (U) complex in the same condition.	D006223
9688	Disorders induced by pheochromocytoma in the cardiovascular system. A therapeutic approach.	The diagnosis of pheochromocytoms is still made only post mortem in a high percentage of the cases. It is important to know both the diversity of clinical forms (of the 16 cases investigated 13 (80%) presented permanent AH, of which 12 cases with paroxysmal attacks, followed by collapse only in one case, and 3 (20%) with paroxysmal AH on a normotensive background) and the severity of cardiovascular accidents, which increases twofold during crises (arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, coronary insufficiency, cerebrovascular strokes, secondary adrenalinic shocks). These complications are preceded by the "alarm syndrome". The preoperatory treatment is associated: blocking of adrenergic alpha-receptors and beta-receptors; correction of hypovolemia, also applied during the surgical phase I (until the venous ligature is made and the tumor excised) under continuous monitoring (ECG, ABP and central venous pressure). In phase II vasoplegin should be promptly corrected by nor. E+E, and corticoids.	D010673
9787	B12 -- dependent methionine synthetase as a potential target for cancer chemotherapy.		D009369
10104	[Sialyltransferase in human malignant melanoma].	A glycosyltransferase, CMP-N-acetylneuraminic acid : glycoprotein sialyltransferase was found in human malignant melanoma. Activities were measured with desialized glycoprotein as an exogenous acceptor. The enzyme was characterized by means of its pH optimum, 5.5, temperature optimum, 30 degrees C, KM values, 10 muM for the sugar nucleotide and 0.3 mM for desialized glycoprotein. It did not require exogenously added metal ions but was slightly stimulated by Mg2+. It required detergent for optimal activity. The effect of nucleotides and sugar nucleotides on enzyme activity has been investigated.	D008545
10109	beta-Glucuronidase and oestrogens in hydatidiform mole.	The activity of beta-glucuronidase (beta-D-glucuronide glycuronohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.31) in placental and hydatidiform mole tissue and in sera from non-pregnant, normal and molar pregnant women was determined. The oestrogen concentrations in the two solid tissues were also assayed. Significant differences were found in the activities of the enzyme between placental and molar tissues and among the various sera. The lower activity in molar serum corresponds to a lower concentration of oestrogens in molar tissues and may be regarded as a response to the alleviation of conjugation requirements.	D006828
10467	Histamine H2-receptor antagonists and gastric acid secretion -- a progress report.	Histamine H2-receptor antagonists, including burimamide, metiamide and cimetidine, are effective antagonists of histamine-stimulated acid secretion from mammalian, avian or reptilian gastric mucosa. Acid secretion stimulated by gastrin or pentagastrin is also inhibited by these drugs, but there is disagreement about the effects of these drugs on acid secretion resulting from activation of acetylcholine receptors. Based on the pharmacological evidence possibilities of treatment by these drugs were discussed in cases with excessive stimulation of acid secretion due to high blood levels of histamine or gastrin. The positive results in several trials on Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and peptic ulcer were very impressive. Some practical problems have still to be solved, for example the appropriate phase for applying the drugs. The demonstrated clinical effectiveness, however, against peptic ulceration offers a clear alternative to surgery for many patients.	D015043
10541	Gingival crevicular fluid: a new diagnostic aid in managing the periodontal patient.	On the whole, the studies on GCF have demonstrated that the flow of this fluid is sufficiently indicative of the inflammatory state that it can be used under a variety of clinical conditions to monitor and control gingival inflammation. Since gingivitis is extremely common, and since some cases of gingivitis presumably do not progress to periodontitis, the question could be posed whether or not a concerted effort to control inflammation (i.e. trying to achieve a GCF flow as near to zero as possible) would be clinically significant. Until there is evidence to the contrary, the answer must be "yes", since few cases are known where periodontitis occurs without being preceded by gingivitis. In other words, the control of all gingivitis, if feasible, should prevent most cases of periodontitis. Although control of all gingivitis would mean the treatment of many cases that would not progress to periodontal breakdown, such efforts would be worth-while if most periodontal destruction were prevented. Even the early destructive lesion exhibiting little or no inflammation may soon be identified, mainly because the minute volume of fluid collected from the gingival crevice can now be measured accurately. Accordingly, the concentration of various constituents in the GCF can be determined, which should lead to the development of tests to differentiate between pockets undergoing active destruction with minimal inflammation from the majority of active lesions that are intimately involved with frank inflammation. Thus, a clinician would measure sub-clinical gingival inflammation by measuring GCF flow, then differentiate destructive from quiescent lesions by analyzing the GCF sample for some constituent(s), chemical or microbial (Listgarten et al. 1975) indicative of the periodontal destructive process. Monitoring the flow of GCF might be of value in other clinical situations. For example, one could monitor the response of gingival tissues to various restorative and prosthetic procedures (Strauss et al. 1975) to ensure that these procedures do not aggravate the periodontal tissues and induce gingivitis or periodontitis. The education of the patient should be easier since patients can read their own numbers on the GCF meter at each examination and self-evaluate their personal periodontal condition and the effectiveness of their home care. Even the education of the dental student should be easier since he or she would have the means of self-evaluating the effectiveness of treatment, and not be as dependent upon the subjective assessment of his efforts by an instructor. Finally, monitoring GCF for various components could provide the dentist with a valuable means of easily screening patients for systemic disease. Obviously, this area of investigation is in its infancy, but does promise an exciting future for the oral diagnostician.	D034721
10716	A new pattern of multiple endocrine adenomatosis: chemodectoma, bronchial carcinoid, GH-producing pituitary adenoma, and hyperplasia of the parathyroid glands, and antral and duodenal gastrin cells.	A female patient was found to have a chemodectoma, a GH-producing pituitary tumour and a bronchial carcinoid combined with hyperplasia of the parathyroids and of antral and duodenal gastrin cells. This combination of endocrine tumours and hyperplasias does not fit with the two multiple endocrine adenomatosis syndromes recognized at present. The case stresses the importance of scanning the patient for other endocrine tumours, once one has been diagnosed.	D002276	D018761	D010282	D010236	D010911	D018255
10885	Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 16alpha-hydroxylase in cultured human lymphocytes.	Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and 16alpha-hydroxylase were examined in intact, cultured human lymphocytes. The two microsomal mixed-function oxygenases had different pH optima and showed competitive inhibition for enzyme induction and activity. Population distributions were lognormal for both enzymes, giving apparent evidence for polygenic control. Induced levels of AHH were slightly higher among first-order relatives of lung or colon cancer patients than in the control group. The correlation coefficient (r) for AHH and SAH coinducibility was -0.08, indicating no correlation and suggesting the absence of association between the two enzymes in man.	D003110
10915	Involvement of protein synthesis in the post-translational control of glutamine synthetase activity of cultured hepatoma cells.		D006528
11029	The relationship of the serum gastrin and calcium concentrations in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I.	The relationship between the serum gastrin and calcium concentrations has been examined in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I. Variations in gastrin concentrations were induced by metiamide and secretin; calcium concentrations were altered by parathyroidectomy and by calcium infusion. Changes in the serum gastrin concentrations were not accompanied by changes in the serum calcium concentration. However, alteration of the serum calcium was accompanied by significant parallel changes in the serum gastrin. It is concluded that acute changes in the serum calcium may induce changes in the serum gastrin. Parathyroidectomy in these patients produced a fall in the serum gastrin, but the ability to produce large quantities of gastrin remains. It is postulated that the thyro-parathyroid hormones may modulate the relationship between calcium and gastrin.	D018761
11043	Microdose mammography.	Tens of thousands of mammograms are performed daily in the United States. Accumulated radiation biologic data suggest that approximately 90-rad is the level of radition to the breast above which the incidence of cancer may be increase. A microdose system of roentgenography is described that provides better images at one-third to one-fifth the exposure of the commonly used low-dose system and about one-eight to one-tenth the dose of Xeromammography. This system should allow for repeated x-ray study in a patient as required, without exceeding the critical level.	D009369
11178	Synthesis of alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotrophin by presumptive HeLa cells.	Several cell lines, originally thought to be derived from a human placenta at term but possibly HeLa-contaminated, have been studied. These cells secrete a protein indistinguishable immunochemically from the alpha subunit of chorionic gonadotropin but not the beta subunit of chorionic gonadotropin or placental lactogen. Complete chorionic gonadotropin was detected but amounted to less than 1% of the level of the alpha subunit. The cells also produce an alkaline phosphatase similar to placental alkaline phosphatase in immunochemical, gel-electrophoretic, and heat-denaturation properties. They induce tumor growth when inoculated into nude mice. These cells are aneuploid and have a model chromosome number of 66. The common HeLa karyologic markers, designated 1, 2, and 3, and A-type glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase are present in these cells. HeLa cells have not previously been shown to secrete the alpha subunit of hCG.	D009369
11182	Serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in diseases of the hepatobiliary system.		D034721
11197	[Prolactin in male reproduction].	Prolactin (PRL), a peptide hormon from the hypophysis, becomes more interesting, since it can be determined by radioimmunassays. The release of prolactin is controlled by two not yet identified factors, the prolactin-releasing-factor and the prolactin-inhibiting-factor. The latter predominantes. Many pharmacological substances can alter the release. The normal serum levels in the man are 6-13 ng/ml. Prolactin affects many organs, f.e. kidney, mamma, ovary, testis, hepar and skin. For clinical tests the raise in the serum levels after TSH or chlorpromacin and the drop after application of 2-brom-alpha-ergocryptin is used. Increased serum levels are found in patients with prolactin-producing tumors. In the male this is followed by disturbances of the sexual potency. Relations between prolactin and male infertility of gynecomastia are not yet known.	D009369
11381	Fasting does not abolish the diurnal oscillation of ornithine decarboxylase activity in Morris hepatoma 5123-C.		D006528	D008114
11553	[Glucagon producing adenomatosis of Islands of Langerhans with polyendocrine symptoms].	A patient in whom Cushing syndrome had been diagnosed at the age of 23 was found 14 years later to have subclinical diabetes mellitus, subcutaneous calcified fat tissue necroses, and hypergastrinemia suggesting Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Histopathologic investigation revealed pancreatic adenomatosis of the glucagon producing A2-cells with accompanying B-cell hyperplasia, and hyperplasia of the adrenal cortex. The origin of the increased serum gastrin concentration in this patient is not yet known. The significance of A2-cell proliferation in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and and in multiple endocrine adenomatosis is discussed.	D016393	D018255	D015043	D009377
11561	Recent studies on the identification of proliferative abnormalities and of oncogenic potential of cutaneous cells in individuals at increased risk of colon cancer.	This recent study describes the growth characteristics of ACR skin fibroblasts in culture and their differential susceptibility to transformation by Kirsten murine sarcoma virus (Ki-MSV). The SF were derived from normal appearing subepidermoid biopsies of ACR individuals, their progeny and ocntrols. Normal SF were contact-inhibited and grew only in 15% FCS. SF of ACR subjects, and some asymptomatic ACR progeny were not contact inhibited, grew in both 1% and 15% FCS and were considerably more susceptible to transformation by Ki-MSV than were control SF. The virally transformed SF showed a loss of anchorage dependency in methylcellulose and formed tumors in athymic mice. The results suggest the presence of early and previously undetected metabolic lesions in SF from clinically asymptomatic subjects. These phenotype markers are currently evaluated for their utility in the clinical diagnosis of individuals with latent ACR and those at increased risk for colon cancer. SF from ACR individuals have been recently shown to contain significant alterations in the intracellular distribution of actin (R. Pollack and L. Kopelovich, in preparation), and elevated levels of plasminogen activator (L. Kopelovich).	D003110
11834	Glucose 6-phosphate-dependent binding of hexokinase to membranes of ascites tumor cells.	A pH-dependent, saturable binding of hexokinase isozyme I from Ehrlich ascites carcinoma to plasma membrane and microsome preparations from the same tissue is demonstrated. This binding is enhanced by glucose 6-phosphate and may be considered as the sum of a glucose 6-phosphate-dependent binding and an independent binding. The half saturation concentration of hexokinase is about 0.4 unit per ml for both types of binding, and a maximal binding of 0.5-2.0 units per mg membrane protein is observed for both, although the pH optimum of the independent binding (5.4) is lower than that of the dependent binding (5.9). The half saturation concentration of glucose 6-phosphate required for the dependent binding is 0.05 mM at pH 6.1. 2-Deoxyglucose 6-phosphate competatively reverses the effect of glucose 6-phosphate on binding but does not diminish its inhibition of hexokinase activity.	D002277
12118	Hormone-receptor interactions--basic mechanisms.	An understanding of the basic mechanisms of hormone action is becoming an important part of a clinician's training. With the advent of radioreceptor assays and their comparison with radioimmunoassays, we are becoming increasingly aware that the normal physiological function of a hormone is not necessarily dependent on "normal" levels of hormone being present in the plasma. Even if plasma levels are normal, if a particular target cell lacks the receptor for the particular hormone the target tissue will not respond to the hormone. It has been shown, for example, by many workers that steroid hormones act on their cells via a receptor located in the cytoplasm of the target cells (1-4). Since the presence or absence of such receptors are becoming increasingly important in terms of unexplained infertility, endometrial carcinoma and breast cancer, it is necessary that the practicing clinician be familiar with the concept of receptors and have some understanding of their mode of action. In this brief presentation, I will explain certain terminology and summarize the state of the art so that you can critically read the literature concerning new developments in the area of hormone action which is to become increasingly important in the next few years. I will discuss some of the aspects of the mechanism of peptide hormones such as LH and FSH but will devote most of my attention discussing the details of steroid hormone action since our knowledge in this area is much more complete. I will also explain the terms frequently discussed in the literature concerned with hormone-receptor interactions.	D001943	D016889
12149	The mechanism of reassembly of immunoglobulin G.	The noncovalent interaction of light (L) chain with heavy (H) chain or Fd isolated from a human myeloma protein Jo (IgG1, kappa) was studied by following circular dichroic (CD) change at 235 nm. The dimerization constants of Jo-L chain determined by measuring the CD change at 293 nm with protein concentration showed that the Jo-L chain exists as the monomeric form under the experimental conditions used for recombination with H chain. The second-order rate constants for the interaction between H and L chains were in good agreement with those for the interaction between Fd and L chain at various pH values. The binding behavior of L chain to Fd could be described by a single association constant. In the interpretation of the binding of L chain to H chain, however, it was necessary to assume that the binding of L chain to one of the two sites on H chain dimer (H2) decreases the affinity of the other site for L chain. The binding constant of the first L chain to H2 was the same as that of L chain to Fd. Renaturation processes of L chain, Fd, Fab(SS) fragment (with intact interchain disulfide bond), and Fab(RA) fragment (in which the interchain disulfide bond had been reduced and alkylated) from the denatured states in 0.5 or 1 M acetic acid on neutralization were studied. The renaturation of Fd occurred very rapidly, while that of L chain consisted of a very rapid process and a slow process which followed first-order kinetics. The renaturation process of Fab(SS) consisted of rapid and slow phases, of which the latter followed first-order kinetics. The renaturation process of Fab(RA) also consisted of rapid and slow phases, but the latter process followed second-order kinetics. The overall rate constant of renaturation of Fab(RA) was the same as that of the reformation of Fab(RA) from isolated Fd and L chain. On the basis of these facts, the kinetic mechanism by which Fd and L chain recombine to yield Fab(RA) can be described in terms of the scheme Fd + L in equilibrium Fd ... L leads to Fab(RA), where Fd ... L is an intermediate, and CD change is only observed in the second unimolecular process and not in the first bimolecular process.	D009101
12151	A study of the interaction between D-amino acid oxidase and quasi-substrates.	To study the interaction between D-amino acid oxidase [EC 1.4.3.3] and quasi-substrates such as benzoate and o-, m-, and p-aminobenzoate, visible circular dichroism spectra (CD spectra) were measured and the binding rate and affinity of o-aminobenzoate to the enzyme were observed by following the absorption changes at various wavelengths. We found a new CD band around 560 nm, corresponding to the charge-transfer complexes which result from the formation of aminobenzoate complexes with the enzyme. The ellipticity of this band was positive for the p-aminobenzoate complex, but negative for the o- and m-aminobenzoate complexes. Crossover points in CD spectra were observed at 470 nm for the m-aminobenzoate complex and at 475 nm for the o-aminobenzoate complex. They probably resulted from overlapping of the positive CD band of FAD bound with the enzyme and the negative CD band of the charge-transfer complex. We propose that the amino group in aminobenzoate, not the pi-electrons of the benzene ring, is the electron donor in the charge-transfer complex and that the position of the amino group is very important for the charge-transfer interaction. The binding rate and affinity of o-aminobenzoate to the enzyme were determined using the absorption changes at 370 nm (380 nm), caused by the modification of electronic states of FAD bound with the enzyme, and at 550 nm (565 nm), caused by the formation of the charge-transfer complex of o-aminobenzoate with the enzyme. No differences between these parameters with wavelength were observed. This independence of wavelength simplifies discussion of the experimental data obtained from absorption changes.	D006223
12256	Acetylcholine synthesis in sympathetic human neuroblastoma.	The synthesis of acetylcholine, as well as catecholamines, was studied by assaying the activities of choline acetyltransferase (ChA) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the tumor tissues and the culture cells of human neuroblastoma. In the majority of 20 neuroblastomas of sympathetic origin, both ChA and TH activities were detected at a significantly high level. In the culture cells of five cell lines of human neuroblastoma, ChA activity was high, but TH was negative in four of the lines. However, it was observed that these enzyme activities changed significantly while in the long-term culture. ChA assay is a useful diagnostic test for neuroblastomas that synthesize acetylcholine. Future studies of neuroblastoma should consider cholinergic activity.	D009447
12529	Investigations of the mechanism of central action of kinins.	The effects of kinins on the level of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin and on their metabolites, i.e., normetanephrine, homovanillic acid, and 5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid in the brain tissue divided into cerebellum, corpus striatum, cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, medulla oblongata, and midbrain were investigated. It was shown that bradykinin in a dose of 4 mug decreased the content of norepinephrine in corpus striatum, midbrain, and cerebellum. It also decreased the level of dopamine in corpus striatum but increased the level of serotonin in corpus striatum and midbrain. Similar changes were observed with 100 Mu/kg of kallikrein. It was that changed levels of investigated neuromediators are accompanied by changed levels of their metabolites. Bradykinin, in a dose of 4 mug, decreased the level of normetanephrine in corpus striatum, hippocampus, and midbrain and the level of homovanillic acid in corpus striatum, and increased the level of 5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid in corpus striatum and hippocampus. It was also shown that bradykinin increased norepinephrine uptake by the blood platelets when its level in the platelets was low, and released the absorbed norepinephrine into the medium when the level of norepinephrine was higher. The above results confirm the existence of an interaction of kinins with neuromediators in the central nervous system.	D007029
12635	[New findings on human prolactin].	Since prolactin (HPRL) occurs as a separate pituitary hormone in man the paper will discuss results about the mechanisms involved regulation of HPRL secretion. A number of factors which lead to an increase in HPRL secretion are named. The clinical relevance of HPRL inhibiting substances as L-DOPA and 2-Br-alpha-ergocryptine is mentioned. The influence of HPRL in pregnancy and lactation period is described also the regulative effect of HPRL on hormone-dependent breast tumors.	D001943
12847	Experience with incompatible maternal donors for bone marrow transplantation.	Marrow transplantation in aplastic anemia and leukemia has generally been limited to siblings who have been histocompatible at both the serological (A and B) and lymphocyte determined (D or MLC) loci of the HLA system. We studied three male patients, two with aplastic anemia and one with acute myelogenous leukemia, who received transplants from their histoincompatible mothers. MLC studies between donors and recipients showed varying degrees of stimulation. Definite engraftment occurred in one patient and transient engraftment in another. Engraftment in the third patient could not be evaluated. In the patient with sustained engraftment, there was clinical evidence of severe graft versus host disease (GVHD) however, this was not substantiated by histologic findings. This preliminary study suggests that MLC incompatibility may be more of an indicator of the risk of GVHD than of bone marrow rejection. If more effective control of GVHD can be accomplished, marrow transplantation between MLC-reactive individuals may become feasible.	D015470
12889	N-Acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole.	The N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in hydatidiform mole is two-fold higher than that in full-term placenta. Qualitatively, the enzymes from the two tissues are similar with respect to KM values and pH optima. Both enzymes also contain a new isoenzyme form detectable by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. However, the molar enzyme is more susceptible to heat denaturation, presumably due to the presence of a higher level of the heat-labile isoenzyme form A in this tissue. Data are also presented incicating that the placenta is not the source of the N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity in maternal serum.	D006828
13027	Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase as a biological marker for human leukemia.	High levels of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase have been observed in leukocytes of 7 out of 20 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute blast phase of the disease. These levels are comparable to the levels observed in human and calf thymus gland and cell lines with some T cell characteristics (Molt 4 and 8402). Negligible levels of this activity were observed in chronic myelogenous leukemia not in an acute blast phase of the disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, human B cells, mature T cells, and the mixed population of lymphocytes present in normal human blood. The detection of this enzyme in some patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in acute blast phase of the disease suggests that the blast proliferation may involve primitive stem cells which have more lymphoid than myelogenous characteristics. This enzyme assay may be of use as a biological marker for following patients during treatment and in remission.	D015451	D015464
13337	Hormone production in ovarian carcinomas. Histochemical approach in stroma reaction.	Enzymatically active stromal cells (EASC) in different ovarian tumors are concerned with hormon production. 198 cases of ovarian tumors were investigated by different histochemical methods. Distribution of lactate-and glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase was investigated by plaimetric measurement.--EASC were found in benign ovarian tumors in 48%, in malignant in 30%. They are found exclusively in ovarian tumors and are completely absent in metastases. Incidence is dependent on histological type of tumor. With regard to untreated ovarian carcinoma containing EASC, these cells cover an aerea of 1.9% (0.5-5.9%). EASC occur in a very high percentage after menopause and are reduced by chemotherapy or radioation. Incidence of EASC in ovarian tumors is in relation with postmenopausal bleeding. Glandular-cystic endometrium is noticed only in connection with EASC. There is a positive relation between the quantity of EASC and the incidence of bleeding.--EASC are characterized by a strong NADP-dependent-dehydrogenase-reaction and reactions for lactate-, malate-dehydrogenases and alcaline phosphatases. Apart from that these cells are not all uniform. It seems that the enzymatically active fibrocytes are the first step of theca-like cells which are then luteinized and finally filled up with cholesterol. Histochemistry of EASC in comparison with other steroid-producing tissues make possible, that these cells have an estrogenic and more seldomly also an androgenic activity.	D010051
13529	[Renal tubular acidosis, Renin-aldosterone system illustrated by a case with pronounced hypokalemia].		D034721
13761	Monoamine metabolism in human brain.	Norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) levels were measured in human brain tissue obtained at autopsy from a series of 39 patients dying of various medical and accidental causes. The nine following brain areas were studied: globus pallidus, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, substantia nigra, floor of the fourth ventricle, orbital cortex, caudate nucleus, and mammillary bodies. Enzyme activity correlated positively with age in all brain areas for MAO (with both benzylamine and tryptamine substrates) but no consistent pattern of correlation was found for COMT and TH. Mean MAO activity was significantly higher in women than men. There is increased brain MAO activity during late childhood and adolescence. These data are consistent with previous evidence suggesting that age and sex are important determinants of amine metabolism in the human central nervous system.	D007029
13805	Acute-phase reactant protein profiles: an aid to monitoring large bowel cancer by CEA and serum enzymes.	The profiles of 4 acute-phase reactant proteins (APRPs) (haptoglobin (HPT), alpha1 antitrypsin (AAT), alpha1 acid glycoprotein (AGP) and prealbumin (PALB)) have been studied during the evolution of bowel cancer. Serial measurements of these APRPs can add to the information obtained from measurements of the level of CEA and hepatic enzymes during the monitoring of postoperative patients. There is considerable stability in the profile in a given individual in health, Rises of AAT and AGP are associated with metastases. High levels of HPT may suggest involvement of the bowel wall by recurrent cancer. PALB levels tend to reflect the nutritional status. A discriminant function based on the log CEA, AAT and AGP preoperative blood levels can considerably improve on the predictive value attained using CEA levels alone.	D009362
13928	beta-Hexosaminidase isozymes in human colonic carcinoma.	Isoelectric focusing of crude extracts demonstrated that human colonic carcinomas contained a higher proportion of beta-hexosaminidase B than beta-hexosaminidase A, while normal human colonic mucosa contained a higher proportion of the A form of the enzyme. Studies of the isolated isozymes showed that beta-hexosaminidase B was more stable to heat and more active at low pH than beta-hexosaminidase A. Kinetic studies revealed that the A and B forms of beta-hexosaminidase had essentially the same Km and Vmax for p-nitrophenyl-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminide.	D003110
13929	Hepatic microsomal N-glucuronidation and nucleic acid binding of N-hydroxy arylamines in relation to urinary bladder carcinogenesis.	Uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-fortified hepatic microsomes from dogs, rats, or humans rapidly metabolized [3H]-N-hydroxy-2-naphthylamine (N-HO-2-NA) to a water-soluble product that yielded 98% of the parent N-hydroxy amine upon treatment with beta-glucuronidase. The metabolite was identified as N-(beta-1-glucosiduronyl)-N-hydroxy-2-naphthylamine from ultraviolet, infrared, and mass spectral analyses of the glucuronide and its nitrone derivative. Incubation of N-hydroxy-1-naphthylamine (N-HO-1-NA), N-hydroxy-4-aminobiphenyl (N-HO-ABP), or the N-hydroxy derivatives of 2-aminofluorene, 4-aminoazobenzene, or N-acetyl-2-aminofluorene with uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid-fortified hepatic microsomes also yielded water-soluble products. beta-Glucuronidase treatment released 80 to 90% of the [3H]-NHO-1-NA and [3H]-N-HO-ABP conjugates as tritiated ether-extractable derivatives. N-HO-1-NA, N-HO-2-NA, and N-HO-ABP and the glucuronides of these N-hydroxy arylamines were relatively stable and nonreactive near neutral pH. At pH 5, the N-glucuronide of N-HO-2-NA and the presumed N-glucuronides of N-HO-1-NA and N-HO-ABP were rapidly hydrolyzed to the N-hydroxy arylamines that were then converted to reactive derivatives capable of binding covalently to nucleic acids. These data support the concept that arylamine bladder carcinogens are N-oxidized and N-glucuronidated in the liver and that the N-glucuronides are transported to the urinary bladder. The hydrolysis of the glucuronides to N-hydroxy arylamines and the conversion of the latter derivatives to highly reactive electrophilic arylnitrenium ions in the normally acidic urine of dogs and humans may be critical reactions for tumor induction in the urinary bladder.	D009369
13935	Impairment of enzyme induction by glucocorticoids in Zajdela hepatoma cells.	Whereas glucocorticoids induce TAT, TRP, GPT in liver and only TAT in HTC cells, no hormonal effect on the synthesis of these enzymes was found in Zajdela hepatoma cells grown in vivo as an ascitic tumor, or in vitro as layer cultures. Although these cells remain uninducible, the hormone penetrates normally, but a strong decrease of the specific binding of cytosol and nuclear proteins with the hormone was observed. The impairment at the level of the hormone receptors could account for the non-inducibility of enzyme synthesis in ZHC cells.	D006528
14041	Comparison of the in vitro conversion of estradiol-17 beta to estrone of normal and neoplastic human breast tissue.	Specific activity  of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD) was measured in 48 tissue specimens of human female breast cancer and, in addition, 48 nonmalignant tissue specimens obtained in each case from the same cancer-bearing breast. In all cases the nonmalignant tissue showed greater conversion of estradiol-17 beta into estrone than the neoplastic tissues. In normal human breast tissue of premenopausal women specific enzyme activity depended on the phase of the MENSTRUAL CYCLE: the highest values of 17 beta-HSD activity were found in the early secretory phase. To determine the intracellular distribution of the 17 beta-HSD, purified microsomes, mitochondria, peroxysomes, lysosomes, nuclei and cytosol fractions were prepared. The purity of each fraction was monitored by marker enzymes. It was found that the 17 beta-HSD was mainly located in mitochondria and microsomes. Furthermore it could be demonstrated that the microsomal enzyme was bound tightly to the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum, while the mitochondrial 17 beta-HSD was mainly associated with the outer membranes of the organelle. Kinetic parameters (Km-values, coenzyme requirements and maximal velocities) of a cytoplasmic, nuclear, mitochondrial and microsomal 17 beta-HSD of normal and neoplastic human mammary tissue were compared. Maximal velocity was highest in enzyme preparations of normal mammary tissue obtained from premenopausal women in the early secretory phase. Km-values wrere nearly identical in normal and neoplastic mammary tissue preparations (approx. 1 X 10(-6) M). NAD was more efficient than NADP as a cofactor. For the conversion of estradiol to estrone the optimum temperature was approximately 40 degrees C and the optimum pH 9.5. For the reduction of estrone the optimum pH was 6.5. Sulphydryl groups were shown to be essential for catalysis.	D001943
14048	Carcinoembryonic character of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase in primary hepatocellular carcinoma.	As a characteristic isoenzyme of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) has been detected in sera of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma, which migrates to alpha-globulin region on polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis, biochemical studies on human fetal liver, Morris hepatoma (7316-A, 7794-A), and human hepatoma was carried out to elucidate its carcinoembryonic character. The highest distribution of the enzyme was found in particle fraction of human fetal liver as well as of Morris hepatoma, and an isoenzyme of gamma-GTP with the same electrophoretic mobility as detected in human hepatoma was obtained, which reflected to the pattern of the serum zymograms. Histochemically, the enzyme was distributed in plasma membrane of the fetal hepatocytes and Morris hepatoma cells, while it was distributed diffusely throughout the cytoplasm of human hepatoma cells. These findings may strongly suggest that gamma-GTP in hepatoma has a carcinoembryonic character and the detection of a serum isoenzyme in the alpha-globulin region is a quite diagnostic as well as the detection of alpha-fetoprotein in the field of neoplasma of the liver. The physicochemical and kinetic properties of the enzyme in human hepatoma were also discussed.	D006528	D008114
14099	Can alveolar pCO2 exceed pulmonary end-capillary CO2? Yes.	In 1891 Christian Bohr observed that alveolar PCO2 could exceed arterial PCO2 when high levels of CO2 were present in the inspired air. He proposed that CO2 could be secreted by the lung. His hypothesis was dismissed as being due to experimental error; however, recently the same phenomenon was rediscovered using modern techniques. A possible explanation for the phenomenon may involve coupling between diffusion and chemical reaction of H+, HCO3-, and CO2 in the vicinity of a negatively charged capillary wall, causing the PCO2 to be higher near the wall that in the bulk phase of capillary blood.  Alveolar PCO2 is related to the PCO2 near the wall rather than the bulk phase PCO2. The Charged Membrane Hypotheses can explain the phenomenon of CO2 secretion not by a cellular mechanism, but a physical chemical disequilibrium within the capillary which is maintained by blood flow through the capillary.	D002282
14100	Can alveolar pCO2 exceed pulmonary end-capillary CO2? No.	The exchanges and chemical reactions of CO2 within the blood are not complete during its transit time through the alveolar capillaries, so that theoretically alveolar PCO2 cannot exactly equal end-capillary blood PCO2. However, as a practical matter, the technical errors in determining alveolar and peripheral arterial PCO2 are so large in comparison with the difference between pulmonary arterial PCO2 and pulmonary venous PCO2, owing to the large effective solubility of CO2 in blood, that for this reason alone any difference between alveolar and end-capillary PCO2 can be neglected. The hypothetical mechanism that was originally proposed by Gurtner, Song, and Farhi for the production of an alveolar PCO2 greater than end-capillary PCO2 during rebreathing and depends on the existence of a radial gradient of H+ X HCO3- in the capillary blood near the wall appears unlikely because a) it would require a significant separation of charged ions over a large proportion of the capillary length and for a large proportion of the blood transit time and b) it would require a large radial gradient of PCO2 within the blood which on thermodynamic grounds would in turn require an unreasonable amount of energy to maintain.	D002282
14442	The role of prolactin in carcinogenesis.		D063646
14460	[Stability in drinking and surface water of nine virus species from different genera (author's transl)].	The stability of nine viruses, Aujeszky, Sindbis, Vesicular Stomatitis, Newcastle Disease, Vaccinia, FMD, HCC, Reo and Teschen virus in drinking and surface water was investigated comparatively at temperatures of 9 and 15 degrees C as well as the influence of water factors like seasonal difference in temperature, pH value, hardness and sort of water. The results can be summarized as follows: 1. At temperatures of 9 to 15 degrees C the majority of the viruses remained stabil in natural water for an astonishing long time. 2. Starting with virus concentration of about 10(4) infectious units per ml Teschen, Vaccinia, Reo, HCC and ND virus could mostly be demonstrated in water longer than 200 days and FMD, Aujeszky, Vesicular Stomatitis and Sindbis virus for 20 to 50 days on average at 9 degrees C. The stability of the viruses investigated decreased in water in the named turn. 3. Based on these results it can be assumed that under natural conditions with very low virus content of some particles the labile viruses such as Toga, Herpes, Rhabdo and pH labile Picorna remain infectious in water for some days. They should not have any importance as water contaminants. More resistant viruses like Paramyxo may keep infectious for weeks and very stabile viruses such as Entero, Reo, Adeno and Pox viruses several weeks to months. 4. As to factors temperature, pH, hardness and sort of water-within the naturally differing range-only the temperature and only in the case of less resistant viruses showed significant influence on the virus stability in water.	D006528
14500	Renin and aldosterone secretion in pheochromocytoma. Effect of chronic alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade.	Patients suffering from pheochromocytoma characterized by an exclusive or almost exclusive excess of norepinephrine showed no (one patient) or only a moderate increase (two patients) in renin and aldosterone secretion. In those three patients with concomitant distinct hypersecretion of epinephrine, renin release (and aldosterone secretion except in one patient) was markedly enhanced. Similar results were obtained in a patient with excess norepinephrine and dopamine secretion. Renin release was markedly reduced in all patients during preoperative long-term alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade. With the exception of one patient, increased renin and aldosterone secretion was abolished. The results indicate that augmentation in renin release depends on the ratio of the different catecholamines secreted by the pheochromocytoma and their different effe-tiveness in stimulating beta-adrenergic receptors. Even in the presence of excess catecholamine secretion, there is evidence that renin secretion is predominantly mediated by beta receptors rather than by renal vascular alpha-adrenergic receptors. Normalization of catecholamine-induced enhanced renin release in patients with pheochromocytoma during chronic alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade supports the assumption that (alpha-) adrenergic blocking agents inhibit renin secretion distal to their blockade of specific adrenergic receptors. However, contrary to beta-adrenergic blockade, circadian rhythm of renin release seems to remain intact during alpha-adrenergic blockade.	D010673
14782	Production of formaldehyde from N5-methyltetrahydrofolate by normal and leukemic leukocytes.	Extracts of human normal and leukemic leukocytes contain an enzyme that catalyzes a transfer of labeled methyl carbon from N5-[14C]methyltetrahydrofolate to tryptamine. Evidence is presented that this reaction is not attributable to a methyltransferase but to the following reaction sequence: (a) an oxidation of N5-[14C]methyltetrahydrofolate to N5, N10-[14C]methylenetetrahydrofolate that is catalyzed by N5, N10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (EC 1.1.1.68); (b) spontaneous release of [14C]formaldehyde from N5, N10-[14C]methylenetetrahydrofolate; and (c) nonenzymatic condensation of [14C]formaldehyde with tryptamine to form a radioactive carboline derivative. The occurrence of this sequence in leukocytes is suggested by data that show that the enzyme reaction is strongly stimulated by addition of flavin adenine dinucleotide and that the final product is chromatographically identical to the adduct formed in the reaction of [14C]formaldehyde with tryptamine. In the absence of tryptamine, a product accumulates that can react with other HCHO acceptors, i.e., beta-phenylethylamine and dimedone; another reaction product is tetrahydrofolate. Production of formaldehyde is relatively more active in normal lymphocytes than in normal granulocytes, but it is even higher in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Activity in granulocytes from a subject with chronic myelocytic leukemia is also elevated but to a lesser extent than activity in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Activity in granulocytes from a subject with chronic myelocytic leukemia is also elevated but to a lesser extent than activity in lymphocytes of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Formaldehyde production in leukocytes is only slightly stimulated by addition of various cobalamins, and activity is normal in leukocytes from a vitamin B12-deficient patient. We conclude that the system is cobalamin independent. Thus, there exists an active pathway from N5-methyltetrahydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate other than the one catalyzed by cobalamin-dependent N5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase.	D007951	D015451
14784	Inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase, in vitro.	A systematic search has been made for inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase (L-glutamine hydrolyzing, EC 6.3.5.4) from leukemia 5178Y/AR, a rodent neoplasm resistant to the oncolytic enzyme L-asparaginase (EC 3.5.1.1), The classes of chemicals examined in this search included substrate and product analogs, agents capable of reacting with sulfhydryl functions, and a variety of modifiers whose mechanism of interaction with proteins is known. In general, antagonists of L-glutamine and thiol reagents proved to be the most effective inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase from this tumor source. Within these groups, certain structural prerequisites to inhibition are reported. Attempts to correlate oncolytic potency with enzyme-inhibitory potency were unsuccesful.	D007938
14906	The activity and distribution of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (y-GT) in human foetal organs.	The activity and distribution of y-GT was investigated in a number of organs from human foetuses aged from 14 to 24 weeks post menstruationem. Over this period, enzyme activity increased in the kidney, pancreas and thymus, but decreased in the small intestine. No trend could be established for the liver, although activity was high. In the lung, spleen, brain and adrenals, y-GT was either detectable at very low levels or could not be demonstrated. The possible relationship between y-GT activity in some human tumours and the enzyme level in the corresponding foetal organs is discussed.	D010190
14970	Insulin, proinsulin, glucagon and gastrin in pancreatic tumors and in plasma of patients with organic hyperinsulinism.	Insulin, proinsulin, glucagon and gastrin were determined in extracts of tumors of 27 patients with pancreatic islet cell neoplasia of pancreas, in one patient with nesidioblastosis, in extracts of uninvolved portions of the pancreas in 11 of the tumor patients and of 15 control pancreases. Mean insulin concentration in solitary adenomas and in adenomas of patients with adenomatosis was higher than in control pancreases; however, in all but 1 patient the insulin concentration in neoplastic islet tissue was lower than in islet tissue of control pancreas, assuming islet volume is 1% of pancreas. The percentage of proinsulin was elevated in 52% of tumors. Adenoma insulin content correlated with increments of plasma insulin after tolbutamide administration. Insulin and proinsulin concentrations in pancreas uninvolved by tumor were not suppressed. Fasting plasma glucagon was elevated in patients with islet cell adenomatosis and in patients with islet cell carcinoma some of whom had multiple endocrine adenomatosis. The mean concentration of glucagon in tumors was lower than in control pancreases. Elevated concentration of gastrin was found in some adenomas. The data indicate: 1) insulin-secreting islet cell tumors have decreased storage capacity for insulin, 2) elevated concentration of proinsulin in tumors may be due to decreased capacity to store insulin and in some to decreased conversion of proinsulin to insulin as well, 3) tolbutamide stimulates the exaggerated release of a relatively constant fraction of insulin stored in adenomas. 4) solitary adenomas may contain excess amounts of pancreatic hormones in addition to insulin, 5) elevated plasma glucagon in patients with organic hyperinsulinism may indicate malignancy, microadenomatosis or multiple endocrine adenoma syndrome, and 6) chronic hyperinsulinism and hypoglycemia due to adenoma do not suppress insulin and proinsulin content of uninvolved pancreas.	D018273	D009377	D007516	D018255
15402	Effects of acetylsalicylate on alkalinization, acid secretion and electrogenic properties in the isolated gastric mucosa.	The effects of acetylsalicylate (ASA) on the in vitro secretory and electrical properties of Necturus and Rana temporaria gastric mucosa have been studied. The gastric antrum alkalinized the luminal surface, while in the fundus it is likely that acidificaiton and alkalinization occur simultaneously and that net secretion is due to the dominance of one or other of these processes. The histamine H2  receptor antagonist Metiamide was used to inhibit acid secretion for studies on fundic alkalinization in Rana temporaria. Submucosal application of 3 mM ASA for 30 min markedly reduced alkalinization in the antrum and the frog fundus. Following removal of ASA there was only partial recovery of this secretion. The drug caused slight inhibtion of spontaneous acid secretion in Necturus fundus but not of histamine-stimulated acid secretion in the frog fundus. Following salicylate removal, the rate of acid secretion increased to a higher level than before administration in both tissues. There was a small flux of ASA across the mucosa which was greatest in the acid secreting frog fundus (4.38mumol cm-2 min-1) and least in the antrum (2.19 mumol cm-2 min-1). Esposure of the gastric mucosa to ASA was generally associated with a fall in transmucosal electric potential difference and short-circuit current together with an increase in electrical resistance. It is proposed that the greater sensitivity of alkalinization to ASA is responsible for the apparent increase in the rate of acid secretion which occured.	D013274
15595	Bioflavonoid regulation of ATPase and hexokinase activity in Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria.	(1) The mitochondrial ATPase (EC 3.6.1.3) Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria, was inhibited by D-glucose under physiological concentrations of ATP. The generation of ADP by the mitochondrial bound hexokinase, seems to be the reason for the D-glucose inhibitory effect. Reversal of the inhibitory effect of ADP on Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria ATPase by an ATP-regenerating system was achieved. (2) Dissociation of mitochondrial bound hexokinase from the mitochondria eliminated the inhibitory effect of D-glucose. Rebinding of the hexokinase to the mitochondria regenerated the D-glucose inhibitory effect on Ehrlich ascites cell mitochondria ATPase. (3) Bioflavonoids such as quercetin inhibit the mitochondrial hexokinase activity, but do not change the mitochondrial ATPase activity of isolated Ehrlich ascites tumor cell mitochondria. (4) The inhibitory effect of bioflavonoids on mitochondrial bound hexokinase activity is shown to be dissociable from the ascites tumor cell mitochondria and seems to be associated with regulatory rather than catalitic sites of the enzyme.	D002286
15721	Interactions between "fever" proteins and normal serum proteins in febrile cancer patients.	When analyzed by cationic discontinuous electrophoresis in urea-containing polyacrylamide gels, plasma or serum from febrile individuals contains trace quanitites of five protein bands that are not recognizable in the blood of normal individuals. These proteins appear and disappear in parallel in sequential samples. Cerebrospinal fluid from febrile and nonfebrile individuals contains a protein band that is electrophoretically identical with only one of these proteins. Since the trace proteins migrate, in urea-containing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, as if they has molecular size of less than or equal to30,000 daltons, their absence from cerebrospinal fluid implies the existence, in vivo, of interactions between them and other serum proteins. Under nondissociating conditions, four of the bands appear to circulate in physical interaction with one another. In molecular sieve chromatography at neutral pH in lipid-free sera, the trace proteins have an approximate molecular size of 165,000 daltons; in lipemic sera they have a molecular weight of larger than or equal to200,000 daltons. Their behavior in gel filtration and in ion-exchange chromatography excludes extensive interaction with any of the following: immunoglobulin M, immunoglobulin G, alpha2-macroglobulin, haptoglobin, and albumin. Interactions between these and other serum proteins are reduced by high concentrations of urea and by low PH. The mechanisms responsible for the observed protein-protein associations would appear to include electrostatic attraction, hydrogen bonding, and weak hydrophobic interaction.	D009369
16315	Hyperthermic effect on exponential and plateau ascites tumor cells in vitro dependent on environmental pH1.		D009369
16783	Localization of hypophysiotropic neurohormones by assay of sections from various brain areas.	The results of studies of the localization of the hypothalamic hypophysiotropic factors based on their direct determination in sections or nuclear punches are described. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone was found in high concentrations in the median eminence-arcuate nucleus complex, in lower concentrations in the mediobasal zone of the preoptic area. In addition to these hypothalamic sites, it is present in all four periventricular organs, especially in the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis. Thyrotropin releasing hormone has a widespread distribution. High concentrations are in the median eminence, arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, and anterior part of the ventromedial nucleus. Lower concentrations are in several other structures of the hypothalamus, preoptic area and septum, and low but measurable quantities are found in most of the structures of the brain. Somatostatin is also present in most structures of the central nervous system, with highest concentrations in the median eminence, arcuate nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and periventricular nucleus. There are indications that the ventromedial nucleus or its immediate vicinity contains growth hormone releasing factor. Prolactin releasing activity was present in the median eminence and mediobasal parts of the anterior hypothalamus, whereas prolactin inhibitory activity was in the dorsolateral parts of the anterior hypothalamus and/or preoptic area.	D007029
16936	The diverse effects of 5'-bromodeoxyuridine on enzyme activities in cultured H35 hepatoma cells.	Reuber (H35) hepatoma cells were grown in medium containing 10(-5)M bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), which was incorporated into their DNA. Cell growth rate was unaffected by BrdU for the first two generations, after which it was reduced by about 50%. The effect of BrdU incorporation on the activities of several enzymes with rapid turnover rates was examined to test the hypothesis that the synthesis of such enzymes will be preferentially inhibited by BrdU. Tyrosine amino-transferase (TAT) activity decreased by 70% within two generations whereas thymidine kinase activity remained at control values. PEP carboxykinase activity was unchanged during the first generation in BrdU-containing medium but, during the second, its activity increased by at least 30%. Ornithine decarboxylase levels decreased by about 50% only after two generations in the presence of BrdU. There appeared to be no simple relationship between turnover rates and the effect of BrdU on enzyme activity. Incorporation of BrdU was found to inhibit the induction of both TAT and PEP carboxykinase by dexamethasone and to enhance the inhibition of cell growth by this steroid. These results are discussed with respect to possible mechanisms of gene expression and development in both normal and neoplastic cells.	D006528
